Did it did it did it P money about the
Then
Receiving your content your audience will see it in a moment to get ready hooray you are alive
Duh-duh-duh, duh-duh, duh-duh
Orange is the health for the stream. That's a little bit concerning orange. Maybe that just means it's
At least a Trump's watching dude Oh
Damn it
Trump is watching
Oh, because it's orange I get it. Why the fuck is it still orange go green?
No, it means that we have armor. So our health bar turns orange
Hello, everyone who could I be looking at the comment section is apparently working. So I don't know what the orange means
This is zero watching. I think it's I don't know
Stream health is technically alive. But why bother because no one's no it's it's up. It's up. It's fine
Oh, even in someone in the comments was like look it's free. He's six five again
So many people call you to call him fridgy as well, I know I've said my own name
Doesn't matter. I
Think when people when they just read it and they haven't heard it. Yeah. Yeah. No, I know. I'm just joking
I'm not offended. I'm not gonna look his name is clearly Fring Daddy G
Bring Daddy bring Daddy G. Yeah, the daddy is silent
Daddy and bring daddy if that one doesn't work settle if that one doesn't work there's Fremen em
This was a little longer to recalibrate no we needed to give time for people to walk around that was the important thing
Oh
Back on the previous stream
We didn't give it a week to ruminate. So yeah, he's back
If you did about 40 minutes to ruminate, it's like so people like wait, what the fuck? He's back. It's like yes
Yeah, we did a the last 40 minutes were they were for patrons only
Exclusive content if you support fringy fring Daddy G as he's known to his patrons
Flingy with women welcome. Welcome. Yeah FAP number 16 who just celebrating 15
16 our efaps are now at the age of consent. Yep
What
You have to be 16 to be able to watch stuff on YouTube this it's true. I don't make the rules. I just report them. Mm-hmm
But yes a wonderful wonderful day we were always planning to do the Eric taxon thing and then Joseph decided to
Correct his viewers and it's resulted in hilarity
So we were just like, oh, how do we cover that and Eric testing putting that putting that in the same video?
Just does not not not meld whatsoever so that we separated them out
And we decided to bring on
Name we running with fring why right?
Fring Daddy G
He was he's been here for now, is this your third efap or second 30 fap third efap insane
Yes, sir, as we we call him one fring to rule them all
Fring dog to fring dog. Yeah. Yeah, so many potential options. Yeah, it's a changeable thing for the whole
whatever comes to mind
So what's your diet because you don't want to accidentally get some fring worms, I guess we should
Give it for those who haven't seen efap episode. I want to say 11 11
Yeah, yeah, because it was after the TRO one I think so
He wrote Joseph Anderson finally released his fabled video or explained why horror games don't work for him
And unfortunately, he framed a lot of the things in that video as we covered it
like
The best way I can put it is the difference between objective and subjective
He had a lot of statements that people were like, but you just you just said that was true
And that's not a true like just just random shit like you play as a superhero because you respawn people like no you don't
Because that's not what's happening
It's important to understand that the way that he said certain things and the way that he said other things made it confusing
Because he would sometimes say in my opinion
And then other times he just state things as though they were true and he has a history
He's a history
with with
Soma is not a horror game
Which she still defends to this day is not being a mistake of writing. It's just that's now
I think it's I think it's important to start comparisons right away
Like if somebody says soma is not a horror game and somebody says the sun is not a star
Are they both not equivalence in terms of the way that they're phrased as though they're factual statements?
Oh in that case yes, but he would argue the difference is important that the genre is subjective
Therefore him saying it's not this is the thing even if it was what he's just stated is as you just put it
It would be a statement rather than
Him saying I never felt it was a horror game, which I probably would have gone over a hell of a lot better with people
Well, it's just that once you change the words
Like if you if you take the same sentence and then just change a few words
Somehow because it's about a video game. It's no longer a statement of facts
Like if I said, for example, if I said the sun is a star
Super smash brothers is a fighting game
Are they not both?
statements of truth or objective statements or is one of them an opinion because it's about a video game and not a star
Was that how it works?
We would rather sit in reality and say yeah
You shouldn't have wrote it like that because it's you're saying a thing is true about that
but no, it was like no, it makes sense if you really just understand how he uses all the different words, but
It it's it's it's so
It's your responsibility
Everything to do with art
Is is subjective everything to do with science would be objective. Um
And and his position is basically that if you say anything that's factual it's no longer an opinion
It's just a fact
But that's unfortunately for him that doesn't follow the uh,
A weird's wick that's not what they're defined as it's not people use them. So
Uh, you ultimately are sitting in a position where you're like, okay
So we take your definition or we take the definition that people have agreed on collectively like or or significantly
Let's say which is the whole point of language
The thing is if he just came onto one of these to talk about it
It would be way easier to figure out what he means
Or to reach some sort of conclusion, but he he doesn't want to talk to mauler
No, he really doesn't like that. I remember it's not even the word I use
It's the fact that I insulted him is what he cites it which just putting it out there if you've insulted me
I'm still up for chatting with you. It's not a principle I hold because there's so many contexts
I mean
Me and wolf never would have met if he had taken my insult the way joseph anderson took it
That's how he cites it every time you like the ragnerok. We will never speak to each other
And like, you know, uh fringy you're an asshole there you go. It's done now no more friendship
And I guess for me I gotta be honest I don't like green people
Oh, well
Well, that's an irreconcilable difference
And you might be like
You might be like that's context though. It frees already. But just like that's the thing
Joseph had said never actually sold my video
He didn't uh, he's he's admitted. He hasn't seen anything from me. So he's just going off. Somebody told him. I insulted him which is
To me it's just like man. You just looked for any thread to not speak to me. Didn't you?
That's the best you got
You didn't like take snipes in this video, which is what this video is. It's just him sniping
He won't mention who it's about but it's clearly in response to the podcast that we did
Oh, uh, it's it's not just us. That's the thing. We weren't the only people who had an issue
So it's no it counts as a response to us and other people but
Funnily enough. I wanted to mention. Um, do you guys know the youtuber skill up?
I know you mentioned him. Yes, they wouldn't know of him but like I
76 video
Yeah a few days ago
I put a I put a comment on joe's video like trying to go through my main issues with it and uh, he responded to buy that guy
say
Like that. I was inconsistent nonsensical and just rude
It's like did he did he ever qualify that did he give an example? No
Um, his his description though is balanced thought for a mature gaming coverage of games. So that seems mildly hypocritical
Yeah, that seems inconsistent one might say
Mm-hmm. Well, I was just like, you know, happy willing to talk to him, but that's probably not gonna happen either
Whatever that opens like that. I'm just like just just keep the doors open whatever but um
Their mother's basement who's apparently an anime reviewer?
Uh hit me up on twitter. Well
Didn't directly uh someone had to send me it because he was talking about how off base I was
Without adding me of course because why you know don't want to get me involved
Um, but then you're gonna go find it on twitter me and him out of back and forth the lasted ages
During it he cited his five-year professional career to me
Um that it that includes being a youtuber by the way, that's like a part of it
And he was saying like this is clear evidence that I know what i'm talking about sort of thing and it's just like
You're a youtuber too though. Yeah, but he's probably got more years on me
so I don't count even though that doesn't necessarily mean he's right anyway, but um
He he was staunchly against the whole objective opinion thing
Until he finally conceded that yeah, you can have objective opinions
But they're worthless compared to like subjective ones because subjective ones are the important ones
uh
Um, yeah, so the response would just be how important a subjective or objective fucking opinion is
Subjective it's like it depends on how much you want to hear it who it's from blah blah blah
There's loads of other stuff that comes with it. Um
But yeah, the the the this chaos has come from this
Um for joseph especially like there's loads of criticisms coming at him that he just cannot handle criticism
It's just he comes down to that sort of thing and we'll we'll see about that because there is interesting though
Like that's just interesting to me that a critic doesn't like being criticized. What critics that can't take criticism
Dun dun dun
um
Yeah, what I liked as well is so he was like, you know
No content of art is truly bad or anything or objectively bad. One of the top comments was um,
Pulled out 76 is objectively bad
Yeah
And uh, I was looking at the responses and some people said as long as one person enjoys it as long as someone's enjoying it
It can't be considered objectively bad. Uh, right
So if if somebody just ate dog shit and then somebody came along and said, you know, that's less nutritional than like a salad
Well, they're like, well, I like it. So that's now it's up for interpretation
Well when I first heard about that from mauler, my response was okay
So if somebody makes a game but they never sell it or tell anybody about it and it just sits on their hard drive
Is it a bad game because nobody enjoyed it?
Dun dun dun
Oh shit that came apart pretty fun
That's one of those bleep bloop logic dying
I should get the mario death sound ready. Oh, yeah, but whenever you play it's absurdly loud
Well, it's gotta be ear rape or oh, yeah if we've learned anything from eric taxon
Rape is good. It is a good design decision that you should do
yeah, so
uh, I guess
We should open with um
What is what is an opinion
Anyone
Do we really need this? Oh, he's gonna come up in a video. So
This is what the fucking video is about dude
Like this is what it all comes down to is the definitions of objective subjective opinion statement judgment fact
Like all the opinion is a judgment viewpoint or statement. I'm just i'm just on a marion webster
conclusive
Yeah
Uh
Yeah, this is what the definition of opinion is according to miriam webster
One a a view judgment or appraisal formed in the mind about a particular subject matter
Um two beliefs stronger than impression and less strong than positive knowledge
And three a formal expression of judgment or advice by an expert. So that's what an opinion is
Yeah, um, I also have an estimation of the quality of uh, or worth of something or someone
Um or the beliefs or views of a large number or majority of people about a particular thing
Uh, but but I I like uh, an opinions of judgment viewpoint or statement that is not conclusive
And this puts it at odds with
Objective. Oh, yeah that would uh, this is the problem. Um
Fundamentally with a lot of words, you know, it would eventually come down to
Uh, what definition you've chosen and as long as that's clear then the communication can go through
But like the most widely accepted
Uh definition for opinion as far as i'm aware nice one wolf
Back when
Is
A view or judgment formed about something not necessarily based on fact or knowledge
So the idea is right, but that not necessarily is important though. Not necessarily doesn't mean definitely not
Um, yes, you can have a you can have a an opinion that like an unjustified opinion
And you guys i'm quinton. I know exactly what an opinion is
orange man bad
Um, I fucking hate trump. I I I fucking hate trump guys
Did he ever give his reasons for why he didn't like trump?
Uh, he said that he's he's like he's racist or he does things that are
Fuck, I don't know like just just all the standard stuff like he's he's the worst for all races
He makes america look worse than it already is blah blah blah
Okay
But again middle of a fucking uniform review that came in
Don't humanize
Uh, yeah, so anyway a view or judgment and you're like, oh so maybe that could give joseph wiggle room
but it's like um in the definition of judgment which I found amusing was uh
it's like
Just give me one sec
Yeah, an opinion or conclusion is a part of the definition of judgment
So if an opinion is a judgment that can be based on facts
And an opinion a judgment can mean an opinion. It's like it's it's it's you get to the point where you're starting to discover
the problem with the english language, but
Uh, all we're advocating for is that you can share a perspective
To to use and to not use the word opinion right now
You can share a perspective that is irrelevant of your emotion, which would be objective
And then the exact same thing as an opinion sharing a view or judgment
Is that you know, does that make sense to everyone here essentially objective means that it
It isn't affected by your opinions subjectively your opinion is wrong
the definition of objective, um
At least the adjective not the noun because the noun is, you know, like a goal or anything like that
But the definition of an objective adjective
Is of a person or their judgment not influenced by personal feelings or opinions in considering and representing facts
I'm going to be objective about this
Based only on the facts and not influenced by personal feelings or beliefs
so
Surely a person is capable of being objective. Yes
What yeah, so you can have an objective opinion
Depending on what definition no
But depending on what definition you use if you use the standard of an opinions of judgment viewpoint or statement that's not conclusive
Just because it's an opinion does not mean it can't be conclusive
Yeah, it's just because it's an opinion. Yeah, you can't use that as the only criteria to find out
If the proposition you're accepting is subjective
Is adjective the definition is based on or influenced by personal feelings tastes or opinions
Yeah, so we know what the difference is now. I mean we already did know but
those are people who are curious on where we stand on this because
There's another thing that joseph didn't really do but we'll get to that. Uh, the
Yeah, so not influenced by personal feelings or opinions. So for me to make an opinion i'll just say like I really like
Um, I don't know
Apples, there's just there's just something I really like you'd be like, that's your opinion
Whereas an objective statement would be an apple is a fruit
Yeah
Apples are good because they're not orange
So if he if you said apples taste good to me
That's an opinion that's an objectively. Yes objectively
So what we're trying to say is you keep providing opinions and you'd be like
How do you split these into subjective and objective cycle?
One one's some approval some are self truths that the only can be proven by the person itself
uh
Based on feelings based on your reactions to things and the as much as you want to be like
Everything is based on reactions because everything's based on senses you'd be like well at that point then
Do you surmise that nothing in science is objective?
And if you do because there are people who do
Then that's fine, but then we're talking about world views. So
Virtual virtual shadow says if everything is subjective I can say it's objective because I say it's my it's my
subjective way of using objective
Oh god
This is what happens when you start
Like fiddling around with the way that words work these words exist for a reason
They exist because there is a distinction and they exist joseph has since concluded that
It's essentially he's like agreeing with us, but not he's basically said you can share an opinion
That is founded in fact, but it would still be personal or something like that
He'd be like you could share an opinion that only has facts and is based on facts
But it's not objective because it's an opinion if you are sharing
Something subjective. It is an opinion if you're sharing something objective
It is no longer an opinion what he's trying to say is an opinion is determined by what the statement was while we're saying
The opinion is what you start with the content of it determines what kind of an opinion it is
Yes, your opinion can be wrong
But it can also be right
Yeah, that's the other thing by the way, we'll get to that
But the idea that it's because you're it it being your opinion does not mean that you haven't made an argument
It doesn't mean that you can't you haven't said something that can be counted
Uh, I mean the idea that it's not that it's kind of absurd like of course you can say things that are wrong
Well, if I told you
I told you I don't find um
like the character ox satisfying for iron man in in imm one because he
Doesn't fucking he like he doesn't cry at any point
And I I just feel like he should have and then you can be like well, okay
But what character ox do you like and then I list a few and then you go one of them doesn't cry
That i'd be like shit. Well, it's all my opinions will leave me alone. It's like no, no, no, no
We were having a discussion
about your opinion
And this is chaos this isn't news to me exactly
God damn like uh, it gets
Everyone gets so defensive the second their opinion is challenged even though that's the whole thing we're doing here
That's what we're doing every day. The thing is, you know, if you say something like if you make a statement
Like soma isn't a horror game. I haven't played but for the people who did
Clearly that kind of rubbed them the wrong way
Because of the way that you put it across
I mean, it'd be great if you just you know claim them for misinterpreting what you meant
Just listen to his audience. He might have you know fucking discovered something about why they were pissed
But uh, that didn't really work out. Also, I just realized i'm giving you guys the invite for the watch together which
We're gonna do in a moment, but
first
um
This is a couple of comments that I found interesting from his video that sum up a lot of the issues better than
I guess some of us could because this is coming from people who are like, you know
Some of these people are in love with his channel. So they're very passionate in
disagreement
and this will tie into how he responds to the comments in this video, but uh
you guys have
the
The album if you go to the first one i'm assuming rags would like to read it out by by bob bilsen
Yeah, um, so the video is called subjectivity is implied and this is obviously works as a sort of
reaction just to the title alone
all right, bob bilsen
People are well aware that subjectivity is implied whether rightfully or wrongfully a significant number of people view your videos as arrogant
And dismissive of alternate views this very video unfortunately supports that assertion
So that will be yet to be proved
But the the idea is subjectivity doesn't it's not a shield. It doesn't work that way
Yes, that's true. Um bob saurus
says
We have a theme with bob
It's true that subjectivity is implied, but you're making the erroneous claim of because it's in a video
It must be subjective
That movie is bad. That's clearly subjective. It's not worthy of qualification of in my opinion
However, when you say something like that movie has such glaring plot holes that to enjoy it
You have to actively ignore the failings of its writing
That's clearly overstepping the bounds of reasonable subjectivity
Sure, there is still discussion to be had but clearly this individual is making a bold claim that cannot simply be lumped in as another subjective opinion
When you make the claim of current horror games require those who enjoy them to ignore its failings
You are extending not only your personal opinions, but also very clearly making a statement about those who do
You spend a good portion of the video literally talking about how people who are scared by horror games must be x y or z
This is obviously not talking about yourself because you literally start the video with the fact that horror games don't scare you anymore
So too long can read you made a video talking about how other people are scared by horror games because they can or are ignoring
x y z failings
That is by no measure a subjective claim that is on the level of that movie was bad and making that comparison is rather baffling
Yeah, and and the fact is like that movie was bad for me
I'm just like do you mean you didn't like it or do you mean it was badly made?
because uh
Some people there is a difference between the two I think yeah, I think that you can because for example
I think venom is bad, but I liked it
Um in the room. It's not good
Yeah, the room is another example
So when I say the room is bad
You don't need to assume that I hate the room and I don't like the room, but I could have been
You think of the it's it doesn't necessarily have anything to do with what personally thought of it
Mm-hmm
That's that's that is textbook definition of what objective is
Yeah, but we don't want those pesky definitions getting in the way of my defense. Just turn off those pesky dictionaries
Objectivists use vote bots to downvote our opinions the objectivists yeah objectivists like this video
It's your moral duty
Apparently joseph deleted your comment
Oh
Well, I you never know anymore on youtube because we had things happen on youtube
You know one way to find out is to go to your email
And in the email there's a section for like youtube notifications. And if you can find someone replying to that
Replying to that comment in the gmail you can click on it and it'll take you to the comment
And if it's been deleted, I wouldn't be able to see it
Yeah, so you're on social
It'll say new comment on such and such or new reply on such and such new reply on this and that
and then if you click that link it will bring you to the
Um, imagine you go to the movies with a friend
Um, well, so if I click a notification that I actually do have
uh
It does take me to the comment and I can see it
My theory is that it's been reported enough that it's been taken into
Uh the spam folder or whatever. Can you link me? Is there a link to it?
Yes
Put that on discord. I don't think he's stupid enough to delete my comments though. It just brings so much flack for him
But I could believe that it got reported by people who don't like me and has been forced into a
I see yours. However
um
I do not
I see yours, but i'm using your link
So let me look in an incognito test
No, I don't it doesn't show up anymore for people outside but
I think it's in his spam folder now because it's been reported. Yeah
Yeah, and it's up to him to release it or not. Obviously just because he hasn't done it. That doesn't mean he's keeping it there deliberately
You might have missed it. Yeah
You might have missed it
One thing that might be strange is that sometimes people are unable to like reply it and get to it, which is why?
um
A comment can be there and it gains a lot of up vote of votes and it gains a lot of replies and then all of a sudden
Basically all of the upvotes stop because nobody knew was seeing the comment and the only people who are getting to the comments are people
Who are adding on to the chain? Yeah, don't all i'll say is don't automatically assume that the the person's deleting them because youtube's weird
um
He doesn't joseph doesn't delete a lot of the criticism
So I would assume he's got a catch-all rule to not delete any to be honest
He's probably like me. I don't actually look at my spam folder anymore because there's too much
um
But if I was to it's in social
Oh, well whatever folder it's in if I could like check all and approve I could do that, but I do just send
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, it's weird because even on youtube if you set it to allow all comments, it'll still mark some as spam
Um, but yeah, anyway, do you want to read the the last one before we get into the video?
Owen Crowley
Um, Owen Crowley says just because it's subjective doesn't mean you aren't making an argument
An argument invites people to argue their own points
So when you try to rationalize why games aren't scary to you, you are trying to persuade them to see your reasoning
It's natural that if you present all your points and your listener is unconvinced you're inviting them to present their argument
Criticism is a discussion in an exchange just like in literature
In the end, no one has to yield their subjective view and we are all probably better for having everyone heard
I don't envy your position being the one all of this is directed towards
Which is it's it's the whole thing is really complicated because this is basically the bedrock of discussion
Like this is this is as base as you can get, you know
Um, and he's just released a video to sort of be like nailed it and it's like you've really not nailed it
If anything is worse, he's definitely made it weird
I haven't said anything in a week. That comment is poor man's mathematosis
We've got all these lined up so that they'll batch what joseph says
Like these are responses to actual parts to his video
So it's better to read them as they come sort of thing, but the first three are just about the title. That's good
That's good. All right. So is everyone ready to hear out his argument for subjectivity is implied
Okay, how long did it take us to get to the video for 28 minutes? Yeah, that's not too bad
Half an hour that's actually pretty good. Mm-hmm. But yes, here we go
Imagine the sour streams guys. Wow wolf interrupting joseph anderson really can't believe it
So arrogant, how dare you go to the movies with a friend youtuber?
Imagine you go to the movies with a friend
You see whatever is new and popular and afterwards you start discussing it as you leave the theater
You thought the movie was just okay. Meanwhile your friend turns to you and says that movie was really good
How do you respond? Do you a disagree and have a discussion with them about it? That's probably what I would do
Aren't they the same part of a
What do you mean? Oh wait, have you guys gotten to b already?
Where he's I got a big c on my screen. Oh shit
Watch together just not sync it goes properly. How dare you? Uh, maybe go back
Let abc play out so stop when you get to the end of c molar
Okay
Well, yeah, we'll stop when we get to c and then talk about it
A disagree and have a discussion with them about it b ask why they liked it and hear them out
Or c rip off your shirt in a frothing rage. Okay. Well, we'll stop at frothing rage. So
Yeah, you can say the options are to say you disagreed and talk about it
Why they liked it and talk about it
And then c to go does go hand in hand, you know
I feel like they're more or less the same really in a casual context. It's basically the same
I love the
I don't want to begin with this. We got such a weird way to start the video. So, um
Something that uh glib pointed out he's someone who hangs a lot on the discord a lot
Um, someone you'll find in joe's fan of some videos. He likes to
I hate to use it because it's just like our fallacy, huh? But the false dichotomy he will create
options
Out of like this such a broad
Uh possibility of answers and then he'd be like, so do you do this or this in this case?
It's three and there's an obvious wrong answer here. I don't know if you guys picked that up the fucking insane person
And discussion is so complicated and nuanced
If I watched a movie with any one person on this planet and the first thing they said was that movie was good
And then I said, what do you mean?
The answer could be just they have no idea what I mean
You would go from there. Yeah, you have to you just you take it as you go and the idea that you're like
I I thought I thought it was I put it in the comment
I was like
Isn't it just most clear to be like so did you enjoy it?
Or did you think it was well made and if that was your concern if your concern was literally just
Tell me more then you would say that right?
Yeah, but there's nothing wrong with asking somebody well, what do you mean specifically?
Because if there's anything really wrong with that
If we came out of the cinema of the room and I said man that film was incredibly well made
Then you guys would be like, no it wasn't but if I said it was incredibly good
You're curious of which which two statements i'd probably run with I would probably know what you mean
And i'd be like, yeah, I will. Yep. I I agree. That was amazing
That's exactly the thing is it's it's really is sort of a false dichotomy because what?
He what is related to joseph anderson was he wrote a script?
And then made a video for his job
Where he didn't explain things properly
And he's trying to compare that to just a casual conversation as you walk out of a theater
Yeah, which is like that can be compared and I mean he's not necessarily said anything. That's incorrect here
I'm just saying the framing is retarded where he's just like this is this happens
Once this happens all this crazy person goes nuts. You're like, what when
When does that ever happen?
Then you'd be like the comment section someone said in the comment section in all caps joseph. You're wrong
You said horror games are fucking not scary. I hate you. I'd be like, oh, come on joe like really
Joe come on now. Oh now come on
Yes
Well, well this this this
uh
We're gonna try and do the whole you know
Make sure we hear his arguments perfectly because joseph is the one person we're not allowed to criticize as much
But I choose c
I choose c too. It's the best answer you have. I don't even know what the rest is. You have me a frothing rage
Or c rip off your shirt in a frothing rage and ask how dare they represent their opinion as objective fact that they're a monster
For trying to speak for everyone and declare the movie as really good
Then you launch into your rehearse speech about how important it is to remember everyone has a different opinion and
I do this and to be i'm sorry
But like hasn't as you never come across a scenario where someone says something and he's like, well, hey, that's not true
And then they go well this is my opinion
This is kind of what we're talking about the fundamentals. It's uh,
The two sides of the aisle that are fighting right now on one side you have the people saying
Be clear because you keep presenting your feelings as arguments of truth and then the other side is like hey listen better
I'm obviously being subjective when I say this
You see there's like a breaking communication whose responsibility is it to yeah, is it on the listener or the speaker?
And I would say it's on the speaker. Oh, absolutely. It's on the speaker to be clear
If the viewers have to say, what do you mean by that?
Obviously they could be I could say like an apple is a fruit and then they go what do you mean by that?
And i'd be like go look at the words
Right. But the thing is is that people aren't being facetious here. They truly genuinely want to understand
this
Yeah, we'd like to clarify that he found soma to be not scary not that he considers it
Just not a horror. It's like what?
Please tell me joseph that you so baffling. Yeah, that's why it's on the writer in that scenario
I suppose that's what I would say. It's sometimes on the writer sometimes on the speaker. Yeah, because yeah, I mean the the listener. Sorry and
Yeah, we'll we'll just
Keep plowing through active fact that they're a monster for trying to speak for everyone and declare the movie as really good
then you launch into your rehearse speech about how important it is to remember everyone has a different opinion and
I think you get the point of this exaggerated example
The reason you would not do this and to be clear here if is because who the who
In the world has ever just ripped off this shit
I like that you have to apologize for doing it like who would do that
Is this ever been done? Is this the thing? Why are you fought? Why is your video talking about that?
It's never happened
Wow, he even admits it's an exaggerated. This is an exaggerated example. And if you've done it I was like
Oh, oh, so you're trying to talk to people in the audience. You've done it. Oh
No one's ever done that
But if you did you should apologize
Okay
Okay
opinion and
I think you get the point of this exaggerated example
The reason you would not do this and to be clear here if you have done this to someone you owe them an apology
Is because even though the statement has no formal declaration of an opinion the subjective nature of it is implied both
So what do you think of that?
Even if it was why can't you have a discussion about it?
The thing is I feel like a fundamental issue with this video is that you think
Why you could frame something being your opinion is by saying I think or in my opinion
But there are a lot of different ways that you could
say something
And have it come across as your opinion
There are so many ways that you can do that like english is it's quite a diverse language, you know
There's a lot of ways that you can convey something as your opinion without saying in my opinion. It's just harder
Yes, if I say if I say fringy is tall
That's my opinion jetta said if I kept the shirt on would it be okay?
I have to ask joseph about that one
I'm not sure if it's the shirt being on or off is the problem or uh the other part
Hey, I mean they get to look at a woman
a woman
but yeah, uh
The subnet subnet what the hell english was that the subjective nature of the statement implies
It's an opinion is what he's saying. You wouldn't need to say it's my opinion if it's obviously subjective now
Um, he's like he's like almost he's like using he's he's right in certain scenarios
He's he's completely wrong in the scenario. He's trying to use it for here. So if I said to you guys
Uh, I feel cold
And you're in the room and you're like it's clearly hot in this room and I go
Well, yeah, i'm saying I feel cold
Like I don't have to change my statement because it was already subjective with the word feel
I don't have to say I feel cold in my opinion. If if if for example, it was 40 degrees, which here like if you
Translate it to the incorrect measurement of temperature. That's really hot
If I said man, it's cold, huh?
It's really cold today
Do you think that anybody would be like oh, well, that's just your opinion, you know
Well, but even things like even things like hot and cold and short and tall are relative. Yes
Generally, it's under generally we have we share an understanding that someone who's that someone who's seven feet tall for instance is tall
Right and generally we share the sentiment that even though it's not absolute zero like kelvin negative 200 degrees
If it's below zero, it's cold
Yeah
Is because even though the statement has no formal declaration of an opinion the subjective nature of it is implied
So the problem that he's obviously applying this to the soma is not a horror game one as well because he stands by that
He's about to follow it up though. He's got to follow
Well, i'm i'm asking does it does this apply?
Uh to that. Oh, right
What do you guys think and that almost comes into a conversation about genre because
No, because we have objective criteria for what constitutes a genre
He doesn't think so. He thinks that well
We do we definitely we do like the thing is the dictionary does so i'm sorry if he can't read well
like how do
All right, go ahead
I was just gonna say do we have to go to
Defining genre on the dictionary and then defining adventure on the dictionary horror on the dictionary and like
Well the reason that we don't have to we all know that there's games that'll
Do a thing because that's clearly horror. It has that shared understanding
That's how we know
Well, that's the thing the shared understanding goes both ways
If and if you wanted to look it up, then it would just confirm that you check out this definition of horror
A literary or film genre concerned with arousing feelings of horror
So it is a horror game by definition. So it's a horror game
And well, the interesting thing is you'd be like feelings of horror
So let's look at the other definition of horror that fits sense
You'd be like a literary or film genre concerned with arousing feelings of intense fear shock or disgust
And right so it's kind of and the fact that it says concerned with arousing those feelings it doesn't mean it has to
It means it's trying to make the attempt
Yes
Which is and as far as he's concerned is if the genre does not make you feel those things then it is not that genre to
You subjectively which so if I don't laugh at a comedy
A comedy
Okay
He's hanging the genre on the effect and not the attempt which is his mistake
Right and and let's let's hear this whole statement out now so that we've covered that someone you owe them an apology is because even though
The statement has no formal declaration of an opinion the subjective nature of it is implied
both by the situation that it's taking place in a casual conversation after seeing a movie and by the basics of
Communication everyone. I know the first part was right. The first part was right, but that second part is not right
the basics of communication
So, uh, i'm gonna uh, what should I call this the list
Of condescension the list of just I want to say massive faggotry but
Um, I think I might be inclined to agree
um
for the list of ever
So when we say the basics of conversation
Yeah, the basics of conversation. So joseph. Anderson is extremely condescending in several moments of his videos
I don't think i've ever seen a more condescending video than this one
Uh, it was impressive. Let's just hear that again to make sure I got it
And to be clear here if you have done this to someone you owe them an apology is because even though the statement has no
formal declaration of an opinion the subjective nature of it is implied both by the situation that it's taking place in a
casual conversation after seeing a movie and by the basics of
Communication. Yeah, so you're saying that if you don't understand it's subjective then you don't understand the basics of communication
Which is not my fault
Not my fault. It's the audience the
It's just so you don't you don't want to say that to your audience when they're having trouble with something you've made you say
Sorry guys, you just don't understand the basics of communication
Get on my fucking level i'm better than you
I keep fucking spelling this weird rug. There's two m's in communication, right? Yeah. Yes
But uh, no, that's your opinion that's just your opinion. Yeah, because subjectively I think communication is only one
Because I can only hear one m come communication
Anyway, let's keep going
implied both by the situation that it's taking place in a casual conversation after seeing a movie and by the basics of
communication
Everyone knows different people like different things and that no one is actually trying to speak for everyone when they make statements like
That movie was really good
Right. No, that's wrong
Well, it depends depends depends if you just walked out of the movie then sure but if you're making a video called
I don't know. The room is really good. Really?
Then yeah, what's so wrong about that?
Okay, so let me present the issue. I say the haunting of uh hill house. They got it, right?
Wolf, I say the haunting of hill house is good. Finally, and then you guys go
Oh, so that's subjective. I'm gonna go
No, i'm actually talking about the the fundamentals of filmmaking in relation to the show and then you go
Oh
So that statement what i'm trying to say is that statement can be objective meaning you need the clarification as long as one person on
This planet used it objectively
Then now you need to know every time you talk to somebody which one are they going with?
What's wrong with that?
Because the thing is we were discussing a while ago what?
Good means and that isn't a silly question. I know it sounds like people say it's silly, but it's it's actually
Semantically important question. Yeah, but when you say something is good
The definition that I really like for good is its second definition, which is having the qualities required for a particular role
Mm-hmm. So that's why you can point to a scissors and be
Um a good scissors is sharp a good. Yes. Yeah a good scissors is sharp
Right or if you if you use the scissors and it's not very and it doesn't cut paper
You know because it's too dull then those scissors are bad so
Qualities required for yeah, for instance for a video game since this is mainly about game criticism
Um, that's probably base standards for a game that we would consider good i.e. When you press a button
100% of the time the input happens
Like surely surely there are certain things we can agree
Are fundamental prerequisites for being a good game
That everybody can agree on when you were talking about language by the way
And I think the correct term is actually a pair of scissors and scissor
I i've actually heard it the other way
Maybe I I might be using an archaic way because I learned it from a charlie brown comic
So that might be the case. I've always said and I know it
I'd just say a pair of scissors if i'm not saying scissors. I normally say where are I need some scissors?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, that would work too. But I but now I
Oh, and if you didn't get it already folks you're watching
If you're not interested in semantics or pedantry
This is not going to be an interesting stream because we this whole thing is a discussion of what words mean
Like yeah. Yeah, it looks like i'm it looks like i'm using an older
Yeah, because the way that I learned it was just
Okay, so it you so you would have a scissors blade
If you're talking about one of them one of the blades on a pair of scissors is a scissors blade
Or just a scissor
So I love
Yeah, no, anyway
Yeah point being he says it's obviously subjective
And then it's like no the statement can be objective depending on what weird this is the thing
I hate to say it, but rags has already pointed out good doesn't have one definition
Yes, and obviously he's using the primary one which is to be desired which would obviously be subjective
It would be the most I believe it would be the most useful in this scenario because
If your definition of good is relating it to desired roles desired roles essentially
We have lists of criteria that we can use to judge it by that standard
Yeah, and if someone says oh, I meant good by I like it's good for me and you go. Oh, yeah. Well, that's subjective
Right and you can use it that way, but this is what I mean. You want the clarification. What's so wrong with that?
Yeah, and if people ask for clarification, that's okay
It's okay
That's like this whole I know that there are people out there who are thinking that we're being super anal about this
But we're responding to a video. Someone's being in fairness
We're not the ones who told our audience that they don't understand the basics
It's always okay and you see this in debates a lot of the time and stuff
It's okay to ask for clarification
And on my discord all the time and when i'm talking with people I say what do you mean by that?
Yeah
And it's and it's okay
Because if if I want some quality because it often helps
It really helps when you're arguing about something or debating something or you're trying to get to the bottom of something
Um, I was having a chat the other day with somebody who said that doom 2016's multiplayer is not an arena shooter
And I asked him really what do you mean by that? What makes it?
What about it?
With how does it not meet the criteria essentially?
And he said well because you can choose loadouts
And so I said well does the ability to choose a loadout mean it is no longer an arena shooter
and obviously
Carried out as you might expect but asking questions and having people
Answer those questions often makes them think about the things that they've said
Making somebody qualify things that they believe
Helps to further a conversation into discussion. What is language for if not, what is just laid out?
exactly
Anyway, and language isn't perfect. No, it's not english language is especially hilarious
So it is okay
That's what's one of the reasons it's so kind of fun and you could play around with it
Because it's kind of in a lot of ways it can be very loose and it can also be extremely precise
So it just depends on who you're talking to what you're talking to them about and if somebody says can you explain something?
You can do that do it
And if you don't understand what somebody else is saying
Ask them to explain it and besides to say someone doesn't understand the basic communication and then to not actually go over it
Like we've just done we I mean you could be like you haven't done that and we'd be like, okay. We're trying
We're trying to give definitions and explain how things are used instead. He's just like nah, I'm right. You're wrong
Okay, that's great. Thanks. So, uh move it on
Let's go to here
everyone knows different people like different things and that no one is actually trying to speak for everyone when they make statements like
That movie was really good. Yeah. Well, yeah
Right. No, that's wrong
Considering that you're watching this on my youtube channel where I regularly present my opinions in videos
I'm sure you know where i'm going with this and you may immediately think that it's not fair to compare
It's a part of his parody video I think
It's april fool's one. He's like pretending to be terrible at cuphead because that's
That's the meme. Okay opinions in videos
I'm sure you know where i'm going with this and you may immediately think that it's not fair to compare statements made in everyday
Conversation to those made in a scripted video. Well, that's true
But uh, that's very true
As he's just said is like my videos have always been this way and it's like yeah
But this this way is clearly something your viewers weren't aware of or at least don't share with you
Yeah, that is that is a defense
Uh that doesn't hold up because I mean that would be ridiculous to say but this is how we've always done it
Joseph anison in all credit to him has made several videos that are very long that have lots of evidence in them
lots of statements of fact lots of objective opinions where he says stuff like
This isn't working because of this and shows it
Or mario has the broadest move set in super mario odyssey. That's uh, that's not your opinion
That's provable
It's yes, and he does prove it right implied some activity there
Well, he does by listing off the moves that you can do. Is that his opinion or is that?
Like obviously it's not your opinion, but now you've told me that subjectivity is implied
So how am I meant to figure out which is which in your videos when you write in a certain way?
And occasionally say in your opinion, but occasionally don't
And if you fail if there are enough people who are convinced or
Debating or arguing over what you mean by what you say, that means you failed to communicate
Yeah, well failed communicate perfectly which obviously is a tough fucking thing. Yes perfectly
Yeah, and and we don't expect perfection. But when it's like an ongoing discussion as to what did he mean? Yeah, maybe work on it
And it's fine. It's not like it's not we're not passing moral judgment on you
You know, this isn't this doesn't have anything to do with your character. Maybe how you respond to it more so
But oh definitely
Yeah, you talking about something, especially if it's a complicated subject like imagine how many times philosophy professors and stuff have to
Repeat things and restate things so that they can get the point across
And it's the difference. That's just the nature of the beast the difference between describing something as boring and monotonous
uh, or
Or repetitive the all these words could be used in the same sentence depending on the context
But they all mean if you tell me something's boring and I didn't find it boring
I'm just like well, that's not true
But boring is a feeling so I can assume that you just meant subjectively
But what if you said oh, no, I meant that it's it's the same thing over and over again
It wasn't yeah, then I could be like well
Why didn't you use monotonous because boring is a feeling you you'd be accurate in saying it's repetitive
But that doesn't necessarily mean it's it's boring and then once again, you'd be like wow
You're being pedantic and it's like that's language. That's how it works. That's what this whole video was made for
And he's taken it so far now that he's pissed off a huge majority
That's enough for him to actually have to address instead of the standard stuff where if say for example
I did present a whole bunch of uh pieces of evidence and then I said this is just boring
Someone could be like I didn't find it boring, but I can see why you said it was boring
And
That's that's usually the benefit you guys are created
But if you do the horror video like he did where it's just poorly researched and then he makes like conclusions
And you're just sitting there like I can't even follow you on this
You told me that respawning in a horror game means you can't be scared of it and that people have to ignore that
You're like what?
But um, yeah, well we'll kick on my youtube channel where I regularly present my opinions in videos
I'm sure you know where i'm going with this and you may immediately think that it's not fair to compare statements made in
Everyday conversation to those made in a scripted video
However, I don't think that's true nor do I think you'd really want that if you fully understood what the result would be
Okay
Oh what a fucking bag it
All right, we can't get 10 seconds in without him just
Immediately falling on his face. I would never fucking talk to my audience. I know right. I would never
I was like, I would never tell my audience that
Like maybe it may be a like in a super joking way about something
That's an obvious joke
Like this is the best thing ever
And if you don't agree that such and such is the best character in this anime then you're wrong and I hate you
All right, and you don't understand fine art or something like, you know, obviously something that's hyperbolic as a joke
but to say that
His audience unironically like you wouldn't want that if you understood what it meant just like also
in the chat
Sorry, what hello to cynic snacks in the chat?
Oh, man
Um, but yeah
Let's let's hear what his take is on uh on how that would result
So let's demonstrate exactly what's happening
The video I released before this one is a great example since there are over a hundred comments on it that address
Objectivity versus subjectivity instead of discussing anything brought up in the video. It's almost like you failed to communicate
Yeah, how do you not get there?
Like yes
And you know what? That's okay. You could say, you know, that's interesting
It's interesting that people are focusing on that
Let me make a video about subjectivity versus objectivity and we can have a discussion on it
Because this is an object of contention for a lot of people
You know, I'm just gonna talk down the snarky of my audience
I wonder if perhaps there's a reason why people are having this conversation joseph
I wonder if it's maybe because you're wrong about it
No, he actually does end this video saying maybe i'm wrong and I was just like oh
It's like that guy who like replied to you on twitter and he was like
Did you think that shinobi might be right and you and wolf are just terrible people?
It's like man, I didn't consider that they said did you consider you're full of hate and it's like, um
What do you want us to say to that? Yes, we are evil
We totally hate things. All right. I this is a little this this is slightly off topic
But somebody just sent me a link to a video of a guy who believes that the season of autumn is a conspiracy
And it does not exist
I'm I'm not fucking with you. I am not fucking with you
This is a real thing in the chat. The season of autumn does not exist
Depending on how good it is. We'll we'll throw that on efap, baby
Also, one of the commenter says rice is not a thing. It's also a conspiracy rice doesn't really exist rice doesn't exist
Dude rice is just corn but like rolled on a table and repackaged
It's like they they want us to believe those tiny ass seeds are grown in big fields and harvested by hand
Oh, I waste more than a field's worth of rice every day
I open a box of the stuff and it goes everywhere rice is actually just starchy stuff made from potato extract or something
They pour it in the seat shaped mold
Dude that's that's like all the that's like all the the conspiracy theory videos
I don't I don't know if I told you this uh for me
But when I was gone from youtube, I like logged out of my account and everything
And I would get the weirdest fucking recommendations for videos ever
between like weird sketchy anime shit, there were all these like
Conspiracy theory videos one of them the first one I saw was a guy who like looked at this ancient
Like settlement in like uh, the mayan or aztec region. I don't know which of the two or maybe it was a third
I don't remember but basically he looked at this wall, right? And you know how brick walls are made
There's just like a bunch of cobblestones like, you know laid on top of each other and rose
Well, he found like these these little divots where there were these circular rocks in between them
And he was like look at how complicated this is
Do you know what this means and everyone with a brain said well
It's probably because everyone was stupid 500 years ago and made shit that doesn't make sense
500 years ago, it's like 2 000 years older whenever but
Point still stands. Anyway
That's what everyone with a brain thought
He came to the to the conclusion. Sorry
That the reason why the walls were built in the most retarded possible fashion
is because
humans were actually
super
Advanced back in the day and then something happened
And then oh then we went back
Yeah, look at the walls. We're here now. We're stupid
Yeah, he he like literally believes he literally believes that the lore of halo 4
Is the way that the world works
Have you seen logic to respond to certain people with like zelda proves god and uh,
Other things like that. It's like people will believe a lot of stuff
You get well, the point of all this is that autumn is just your opinion
Yeah, well if that i'll check that video out if it's like good e-fat material we'll totally throw it on uh
Oh, there's some great ones that you should see the the conspiracy theory videos about how giants created the world and mountains
We're just like there. I remember. Yeah, I remember you talking about that before
Like they sat on mountains and just talked to each other
So anyway
Um, yeah, there's the video we were talking about I think
For example since there are over a hundred comments on it that address objectivity versus subjectivity
Instead of discussing anything brought up in the video
But then there were lots of comments that discussed what was brought up in the video
Well what we're gonna do right we're gonna run through about
Until we're gonna we're gonna play this until he stops showing comments
And then we're gonna go all the way back to to this because the we got a new set of comments to read from his audience
After this section this is we want to do a his audience's response to this video as well
So we'll just let this run until he stops showing comments on screen
These are comments that are using a perceived error in presentation as a way to entirely
I'm, sorry, but that's the shittiest sensor attempt. I have ever fucking seen
He just took like a white thingy on paint and just put a white spot on the icons after he took out their names
Like look at his little white spots on the icons
Uh
I don't know. Why why wouldn't you just do the whole right icon? Yeah, like people make this like
All you had to do all you had to do is just like take a white box that covers up both
The profile picture and the name you didn't need to cover up the name and then like go in with a little
Screen on that face. Can I just put it out there guys like you just read one of these comments
Load up the comments on his video control f anything from this and then you'll find these comments. Like this doesn't protect them
Uh, yeah, in fact, it does less to protect it
It doesn't do anything to protect them because you wouldn't find them via their name
Anyway, you'd find them via the fucking control laughing the words
I mean, yeah, these people make these comments
Like publicly on youtube because they believe them. Why would you want them to be anonymous?
Why would he just go through the effort to break out his fucking wacom town?
Just scribble a little bit over each one like
I always thought it was pronounced
Wacom I don't know wacom is what I say, but I don't know
I don't know. I'm probably wrong
Why
Oh, so yeah autumn isn't real
Wait, someone said more those are generic circles with the letters in them. Yeah, we're saying the the white blobs
Clearly his attempt to cover them
And it's weird. It's like why wouldn't you just cover the whole thing?
Yeah, no because you might find out that jay
Right that could be jay jay made a comment on a joseph anderson video and I will hunt down every purple jay
You would fast to find him by just control f'ing this weirds like it doesn't that doesn't do shit
Let him know that jay made his
purple google jay was
He was clearly using his wacom tablet and it just that's what it went with. Okay makes total sense
Let's try and get through this bit because like I said, we got some comments
Could just imagine like liam neeson showing up at jay's doorstep and he's like I saw your comment
I don't know if your name is jason or john or jeremiah. I don't know but i'm here for you
I don't know who you are. I don't know what you want
But i'm gonna fucking kill you
If you think you can continue to comment on videos, you're a sad mistake. These are comments dude. Look at that one that he's
Is that is that just is that wait a minute is that commander shepherd's face I think so
He started out so good with that first one, it's almost like a shape but at the bottom he's just like a fucking spooky goat
Why would he even bother it's like it's like he almost didn't want to cover up the rest of it
Okay, okay
Good god anything product in the video these are comments that are using a perceived
Whenever we really feel what he says, oh wait, it's gonna be all right. All right, everyone. Just close your eyes for a moment
Okay
Okay
Instead of what's the fucking point of censoring the other ones if you don't censor these fucking idiots
He's just showing all of these with
Time
Joseph
What's the point? David Bowie, Sama, Sensai, Senpai. Oh god
It's Jay man. Oh no. Oh wait Jay man. Yeah, I recognize that David. Oh, he's he's less purple than before
Oh
The Jay
Oh, that's
Okay, man, because i'm assuming the principle is I block the names out so they can't be targeted it's like
Is if anyone is going to go in search of someone who commented on a video
Harass them. They're all weird people out there. They're all weird. Well, sure
Yeah, you're not gonna you're not gonna block out his name
Your comment is Felipe Pepe. Oh, wow. Yeah, I didn't know he commented on it in Reykjavik
Wait, wasn't this the example of comments that didn't get the point? Is he saying he didn't get the point?
Well, these are these are totally different comments though, because I guess but they're not
So I could find out where they live. Look at that one at the bottom. Okay, Joseph. Are you with me here?
This is easily the worst video you have ever made
Okay
All right
Let's do it once no no pausing or comments until he gets to the end of showing the comments we can do this
Comments on it that address objectivity versus subjectivity instead of discussing anything brought up in the video
These are comments that are using a perceived error in presentation as a way to entirely dismiss any points
There's no need to argue anything when you can just say sometimes self-righteously
Stop presenting your opinions as objective facts. Oh, he's gonna let you know
Everyone stop mixing facts and opinions together
This has been a problem since the first okay
So that he said it now and there's so many ways to break this section down. But the first one we're gonna run with is
uh
people actually responding to this so
Rags if you go to duttle is the first one
Okay
Someone in the chat said troll or not a troll
You can see that about every video we've covered
Okay
well duddle says
This video feels somewhat mean-spirited considering many of the comments you're defending against were earnest and made a fair argument that it points
You did seem to project your opinion on objective statements and that the general underlying statements in your horror video
Are less sophisticated than your usual style
Admitting some degree of error isn't bad and the overall tone here is really patronizing
Not to mention the broad sweeps here border on straw manning. Some of the original commenters on the horror video. Hmm
Interesting let's uh, let's pop to the next one
Domantis said
Great, some people took the easy way out with the mopinion argument again. Respect calling them out on it
Now go and make a video addressing the top five comments that actually point out why you were wrong
And don't pretend that any of them were that subjective because they aren't
And finally matthew
Matthew says
Me and many other commenters were trying to give you criticism on the last video
But I see you have just brushed it all aside
I think that says a lot about how you handle criticism
These past couple of videos have been sloppy and rushed
You make good videos when you take your time and do adequate research on the topic
You do try to pass off your opinions as facts with manipulative language
It's on you to write a good script and tell the audience when you're being objective and when you're being subjective
You can't expect your audience to not have a problem with you expressing your feelings as facts
You state both in the exact same way
This is a very common tactic people use to persuade people
Subjectivity is not always implied relative isn't is actually what's harming debate
You also come across as very condescending in this video and I would recommend knocking that off
and so that's it for them, uh, the
The general consensus is people are not happy with how he's just summed up the response from his audience
Which doesn't fucking surprise me considering he did just brush them all away like
You just don't fucking understand language or writing
This is why we're gonna have to go through this bit a couple of times because there's so many different
Just you're such an asshole is the response to a lot of this but
The fucking accents he puts on to portray his audience where he's like, you don't understand what an opinion is
It's like joe you sound like a five-year-old doing an evil bad voice
This is all a wonderfully bad argument for what inspires fear in people in general. Oh jesus. I also love that people are
Instinctively understanding this based on the comments
Although if this is your source of why you feel scared or even horrified by a game all power to you, man
Wonderfully bad argument for inspires fear in people
Well, this is the thing a lot of people felt that he just did not understand what makes people scared in games
Like he he just it just showed no empathy. It was just like he didn't really try didn't explore anything
So that's one of the bigger problems. Yeah, I think the third comment there is pretty interesting
Chaos blade says so many people saying he's not stating a fact. He's stating his opinion
Look, the title of the video is why horror games don't scare me. So it's all just his opinion
But in the video you say quote, this is where I conclude that most horror games aren't truly scary
But are instead horror themed. Yeah, that sure sounds like an opinion. He probably would say that's his opinion. Honestly
He'd be like well, it's just my opinion
Yeah, whatever he even says this is where I conclude x
So this next run through right we'll listen to what he says
And then the final run through we'll see what the actual comments say in relation to what he says
But just listen to what he says this time anything brought up in the video
These are comments that are using a perceived error in presentation as a way to entirely dismiss any points
There's no need to argue anything when you can just say sometimes self-righteously
Stop presenting your opinions as objective fact
Stop thinking you Jesus Christ, man. You know what I mean? You know what I mean?
That's so bitter
no self-awareness
none
To speak for everyone stop that voice
that voice
Who are you who are you trying to sound like what is that voice where where is it we haven't gotten to it yet, but uh
He's not showing the comments that he's speaking. You know what I mean? He's like
We're getting to figure out where we're in the comment he's at
But if we tackle it without comments
So if we tackle his argument here, which is let me just listen to it again to make sure I got it
And as a way to entirely dismiss any points, there's no need to argue anything when you can just say sometimes self-righteously
Stop presenting your opinions as objective fact
Stop and you don't have to argue anything if you just say it's my opinion stop mixing facts
Um, also that's another one. He's just called his fucking people in his audience self-righteous, which is like great
Yeah, you're one to talk
uh
And yeah, i'm just trying to catch they're using a perceived error as a way to entirely dismiss
his
argument, I think or to entirely dismiss
Basically he's accusing his his commenters now
Of choosing the whole subjectivist's objectives to ignore everything he's saying which
As you've already seen in the comments if that's all they were saying the comments wouldn't even be that long would they?
Like there's a lot more to it than that
Acts and opinions together
This has been a problem since the first video that i'm right. So now this time we'll actually look at the fucking comments because
When you put them up that fast, sometimes you'll miss what they actually say. These are comments that there's a there's one comment
Where the profile picture?
Like you only see the outline of the circle and everything else is white and it's like you had to get so precise to do
That and all you had to do was just put a box over it spooky ghost is my favorite
My favorite too spooky ghost shepherd is
Oh, I want that to be assured
My name is commander shepherd and this is my favorite ghost on youtube
This video is honestly pretty bad
So while you start off on the route of subjectivity you quickly detour into objective statements and you'll notice that that's cut off
Because the rest of his argument doesn't continue that way and I
Fucking for some I got the snap of it and I was talking to I think it might have been rags about this
Obviously I had to do some prep here in case I got some things wrong
It's the last thing I need to do and talking about fucking semantics
But I have not I can't find where I had that snapshot from now
But the basically if you go and find this comment that starts with this video is honestly pretty bad
um
The rest of the argument moves on to specifics in the video that I believe the comment even ends with him
Making a direct comment about the video and what joseph's talking about right now
is um
The idea that people were basically just saying you're presenting objective statements as with subjective argumentation
And it's like this they're doing more than that joseph even in the ones you've cherry picked. They're doing more than that
Can't ghost milk wet steal people?
Wet
Some people are saying that ghost milk is better than rhino milk, but I don't know I love how the chat is all just ghosts in the rhinos
Ghost milk is better than rhino milk
No
We're trying to milk a ghost
That's joseph is the ghost of a rhino. How about that?
Does joseph is quinton?
I'm, sorry joseph your video is just so terrible that we're more interested in what the chat's doing than you
We're amused by ghosts and rhinos
And you know if someone just jumps into this stream and like sees this right now
They're gonna see us laughing and they're not gonna understand any of them. They don't get this
Episodes of lore for them to absorb first. Yeah 15 episodes in like 31 hours worth of lore to figure out
Dude dude, if we and we've got 15 episodes that's
Like four hours an episode that's like 60 hours of content
You'll get to a point where there's a new board content
There'll be a more content than a general game
There'll be a point where there's a newborn baby who can't actually absorb all of efap because it's just too long
Before they're dead
Did you know if someone was a baby was born today and listened to all the efaps
They would have to listen for 98 years before
Anyway
So so yeah, so he's saying that the main main thing people were missing here was they were like, oh it's just
Presenting your opinions as a personal experience as objective and it's like some of these comments go further than that
So he's got the first one which cuts off a large portion of the bonus part of the argument
The second one which says he acts like the purpose of scary media is to literally put you in a fear for your life
Which you know, there's there's so many elements to horror as a genre. They're not all about making you fear for your life. For example
Lovecraftian is is more so about making you fear for your position in the universe as opposed to
Your life being in danger. Um
Yeah, and then there's the existential ones from horror as well from soma
That's not specifically about making you fear for your life. It's more like what is life and how fleeting everything is
What am I what makes me what I am? Are you my am I my body am I my memories? What am I?
They're more of me. It's yeah
So yeah, so there's more there than simply saying
But he does say it in the second sentence, but it's like seems like you ignored the first one there joseph
And then you got you're so determined to state your personal experience as fact for everyone
You can use the same logic to argue that games will always be more scary than movies and again
So it's the first part sure. That's what you said. It was joseph
But what about the second sentence? What do you have to say to that in response?
You can use the same logic to argue that games will always be more scary than movies
It's easy
How do you reconcile that in your head when you're saying that movies scare you more than games like um?
Have you guys heard the argument of like, you know, no horror movie could ever be scary more than once because you know
How everything turns out?
Yeah, it's like if someone told me that i'd be like, well, yeah
You know, I I tend to get invested again when I watch horror movies that really do scare me
Um, maybe less scary. Yeah. Yeah, I would imagine that's probably gonna happen for a lot of people
But ultimately they're really big jump scare at hail house. You know the one i'm talking about. Oh, yes
I mean I probably next time I watch through the
series i'll be like expecting it but
I mean that doesn't take away from the tension and anxiety that the show makes you feel the whole time
Yeah, that's just the three. So let's see what what's next they're using a perceived error in present
He only really pays lip service to the idea that it's just his opinion
He repeatedly insinuates that everyone else has just misinterpreted their own feelings
Now that one isn't even what he was saying the whole it's just objective presented a subject if this guy's actually accusing him
of
Saying that other people have misunderstood the experience and the example of that would be when he's uh
talking about how
Like like like people could be more scared than they realize and I think it's more because of when he said
Um, most horror games aren't really horror games. They're just basically pretending
Yeah, and how people have to give more to horror to get immersed than other stuff
He's like he's just declared that that's the case
Yeah, I feel like when joseph said that
When people are were afraid of something and they say this scared me and that that's a horror game. It scared me
He's like, no, no, you you just yeah, you might think that you were scared. But really it was just you know, duh, duh, duh
presentation as a way to oh and uh
Then you've got except a lot of the points he makes the statements are not prefaced with I believe or in my experience
Or something along those lines
He does sometimes where there's so few and far between this is more of a general review than a personal one just from the way
He weirded it which
Is that not a fake comment? Well, he's going to address that one, uh later in this video. So
But again, um
It's just the it just comes down to semantics at this point, which is
As we've said if everybody's having this much of a problem with it
Then maybe you need to do something about it instead of telling them they're listening wrong
Um
Just because it's his opinion doesn't mean he can't make terrible arguments
Which he most likely did in this entire video besides the the opinion piece narrative is just a facade once you actually read between
The lines of what he's actually saying throughout the video
I have to agree with that comment
But yeah, he's selected a couple here that do represent the whole um, they didn't have to address his arguments in the video
Instead, they just addressed the presentation
but the problem is
He said that that was a way for them to uh, entirely dismiss his argument
When in reality that they're making an argument against his argument in that what he's arguing objectively cannot be
Considered valid evidence because it's subjective but he hasn't
He doesn't care about that because of his denefinition definition of um, well subjectivity and opinions and all that
So he's not taking it entirely dismiss any point
If you use phrase like I think and I believe more often or stating his opinion as fact then I bet people would be less harsh
that's
Possible mate you lose the opinion title once you start making definitive statements in a manner to pass your subjective opinion as objective fact
Like soma's not a horror game
Um, and then you go i'm insulting him because he's going the downward thrust direction of stating opinions as facts and trying to use
Objectivity to justify his claims. It's all vapid and nonsensical, but he tries to pass it off as an opinion
As opinion while using fake facts fake facts
Like fake news i'm confused. Why are the lower two comments like indented?
Because they're replying to somebody else and he whited the name out. Oh, okay
Uh to try and bolster his argument that if you can respawn it's not horror
This is the same guy who said mario odyssey is a boring and is boring in three hours or so
And now spends 13 minutes trashing an entire genre of gaming
Do you not see the point or do I have to spell it out for you?
Not only was he wrong about mario odyssey
He's a moron for trying to use subjectivity as the crutch of his argument with false objectivity
I've always found that interesting that he spent three hours on a game
then he spent
13 hours on a genre a 13 sorry three hours on a game 13 minutes on a genre and now he spent 14 minutes
on the fundamentals of discussion
Yes
It's a little bit interesting, isn't it? So like
you might want to
reconsider how you sort of
Maybe maybe put a bit more research and effort into this particular topic because man
This is like a huge one that a lot of people are very concerned with I don't know
Most most youtubers probably wouldn't feel the need to make a video addressing just this
It's really complicated and you know
What how long has it taken us to get this far to make sure that everyone's following along with more essentially the rules or
The rules we follow anyway for language
Takes a while to be sure if you throw in a few spooky ghosts and rhinos though, it does sort of delay it up a bit
There's no need to argue anything when you can just say
It's just you know, we'll let these three go i'm just like it's unbelievable how he's not
Been shaken by this the amount of people who've been like
The middle comment is a good one though daily reminder that having opinion in the title and sprinkle for the video makes you think you can
Get away with pedantic shit. Like soma isn't a horror game
He's gonna keep coming back to that for him sometimes self right
Justly stop presenting. Yes
That's the that's the did you see the the profile picture that was like all white except for the outline?
Oh, yeah. Yeah
That's did he color that all in?
I don't know
Why'd you put so much effort into that one?
Yeah, man, listen not every not every censor mark can be a ghost man
As objective fact also look at look at these comments they're huge there's no way they're just saying that
Stop thinking you speak for everyone
Stop speaking ghosts if you're talking to everyone justly stop presenting your opinions as objective fact
Stop thinking you speak for everyone stop mixing facts and opinions together
This has been a problem. Like if this was always a problem, then why wasn't it? Um as why is it more significant now than ever?
and um
How is it that you would assume that it would be just from youtube or just from you making game analysis?
Like wouldn't this be a fundamental of communication anyway?
If all if people all of a sudden start bringing up a certain issue with my content, then i'll be like, oh what happened?
What did I do? How long do you think he took to individually colorate all of those?
What's the point? What look at the fucking top one? It's like
There's like two different spots on it. That's got to be a troll. There's no way he did that
What's the point because it blocks out his face. Look at it
And whatever he's holding too. Oh, is that person holding something?
But some of these he blocked the ones out that just had the generic fucking
Yeah, like the one at the bottom it's just like clearly a picture of a bird and he blocked out its head
For a second there. I was like, maybe he's doing it to block out anything that could identify someone's face
But then he's done it to just generic photos. So I don't know what he like letters. Yeah, like
He did it to jay not jay man
How dare you do that to jay he's a good man
And
weird
Since the first video that I made on dark souls
It is a problem for other content creators and for people who don't make videos
But simply want to discuss things online
It's also an issue that is getting weirder as time passes you missed. It's an issue that's getting weirder as time passes
I wonder I can't remember that when I first watched this how does he qualify that getting weirder as time passes for some
Subjectivity is the someone in the chat's actual name is jay
Since its name is actually jay so
No, it's not him. It's someone was saying that his name is jay as well those
Dark souls isn't a game. I didn't play it
So it works
So an issue that is getting weirder as time passes for some subjectivity is the problem not objectivity
These comments do the exact same thing except this time the fact that i'm presenting
Opinions is what's being used to sweep away any need to argue points. Is that a fact that you're presenting opinions?
He needs to prove this so grab me if i'm wrong
But he's just said that some people are saying that the fact that he's
Saying feelings means that there's that they don't they can't argue like talking about it that it's invalid or something
The thing is it could be depending on what you say
So if I made a video called why horror doesn't scare me and then I just go
Outlast doesn't scare me soma doesn't scare me amnesia doesn't scare me. Um, there's no horror movie that scares me
Anyway, thanks guys. Please visit the patreon and uh, see you next time and then they go that was shit
All you did was present your fucking, you know feelings and then I go. Wow, so you don't like subjectivity
But those are my opinions. Those are my feelings
Exactly. So it depends on what he presented and there's a lot of crazy shit in his horror video
Same thing except this time the fact that i'm presenting
Opinions is what's being used to sweep away any need to argue points being made in the video or the article
this is also
So you got much like your subnautica review. This is too flavored in personal preference to be useful
This tells us more about you than being any help with a good idea
I think that's fair the idea being that if you're an analysis channel, you'll
I don't know about you guys, but like people will be like, oh, thanks. I've actually learned something
Yeah a review when you when you make a review it's not for you
It's for everyone who watches the review. I mean it'd be weird to upload it if you were intending it only to work for you, isn't it?
Like yeah, well, yeah, I mean the fact that you're publishing it to the world means you want to hear it
And sort of unintentionally perhaps it means you're inviting people to respond to it
Yeah, I mean ideally you can't learn anything from your own review
Uh, if you make a video blog on how you feel about certain things do not criticize anything for fuck's sake only because you're some
Marginal person with a bizarre perspective
If you are the problem talk about your problem not about how the industry gets it wrong what a diluted lunatic
That is a bit of a reaction
Sure
But the fact is that he does he does imply that the the problems in the genre and it's like joseph
You don't like it doesn't mean it's a problem. It's more complicated than that
Also, you're gonna have to censor better because I know that's clearly satan huma that made that comment
You're just gonna have to work better. Well, someone said, uh, it's a meme on the internet that you block out the eyes
That's all this is this like but he's clearly blocking out different amounts of things on everything
Yeah
It's extremely inconsistent
It's just funny. You can see where he went to paint and just bit a little squiggle
Subjective so why discuss it? This is just your subjective opinion. So oh that middle one. What the fuck's going on with that one?
Uh
Must we even try to figure out what is the process here a butterfly ghost?
I expect to see butterfly ghost milk emojis in the
chat
Discuss it. This is just your subjective opinion. So who cares god who said that what is this?
What is this voice doing?
The fucking pissed you off there for you
It's just like oh my subjective view
Just stop it stop
I just I want to know who out there thinks that the subjective opinions aren't worth discussing people are actually putting
I didn't know there was a butterfly emoji. I didn't know they could do it. Oh, there's a milk
Oh
That's it this is just your subjective opinion so who cares
Personal subjective views aren't worth discussing who said that let's see if it's on screen. Let's see if it's on screen maybe
Well somebody says
I don't feel I feel this doesn't need to be analyzed especially since it's such a
Objective thing that belongs to you. You can't be immersed
Yeah, yeah, that's I think that's fair
It contextually it's
Based on the video. Yes
Well, they said it doesn't need an analysis because it's such a it's a thing that specifically happens to him
So why even bother trying to like explain it on any objective level when you could just sum it up as
I don't get immersed because you die in horror games and come back
You could have just said that and this has the same value because the rest of it's fucking nonsense
Yeah, man, that's not the same thing as personal opinions aren't worth discussing
Yeah, that's not what that guy said
Despite using reasons that are literally the opposite of each other these it's just it's a it's a bad faith translation of it
Also, did you catch that listen to the the next bit of little condescension there by using reasons that are literally the opposite of each other
These comments are identical get out of jail free cards for people who disagree with something being presented to so he said that is
That's funny. That's really funny. These comments directly contradict themselves. Are they being used as a get out of jail free card?
It's just like oh, can you wonder why his comment section will like screw you at this point?
Jesus christ, I would never talk to my audience like that
And this is the thing if you responded to specific comments and these things were true you could at least have that
But he's painting such a broad brush with these guys
Also, I kind of I don't even know I was going to write this in my the list of mf
But I don't even know how to sum it up. It's like
these comments
Contradict themselves and
What does he say function out of get out of jail free card for what exactly
Comments are identical get out of jail free cards for people who disagree with something being presented to them
Or get out of discussion free cards
Get out of discussion free cards
Because that's what everybody wants, right
Yeah, the people who come to your comment section and write out these paragraphs
About how they feel they want discussion get out of jail free cards
That's what they want
Why waste time thinking of counter arguments when you can just do this instead it's easy self-awareness is off the charts. Wow
Joseph what are you doing, man agree with something being presented to them or get out of discussion free cards
Why waste time thinking of counter arguments when you can just do this instead it's easy
It just works
Most of you are probably thinking this is a bizarre reaction
Unfortunately, it's becoming more and more common and I feel like no, that's that's the funny thing
He thinks that we would think is the audience that he's highlighting bizarre reactions from the audience while we're like, yes
You are having a bizarre reaction. Joseph. Yeah, that's the thing. You're the one who's having the bizarre reaction
But no, no self-awareness like damn like but oh
He's thinking someone said that attitude got trump elected lol
Our reaction unfortunately it's becoming more and more common and I feel like I have to address it
If anything just so I don't have to keep saying the same things time and time again when I speak to people about my videos
if anything joseph you've made it even more complicated and
Confusing for your audience in future. Now people will be even more confused about what you they'll go forward being like
So was subjectivity implied at this point in your new review and you'll have to be like
Yes
It's not implied if they have to ask
It would have been better if he just re redid his horror video
With all of this in mind then it would be for him to try and
Keep digging that hole. I guess
First off
Or he could just not make videos on horror since he clearly doesn't know what he's talking about ideally
Yes, I mean if you have like no emotional connection to the the content maybe
Just leave it alone because it's not for you and you're not gonna have yeah
I'm not gonna review rom-coms because they're not my thing
That doesn't mean they're objectively terrible
More complicated. It doesn't mean you can shit out an entire genre
That's the other thing there were so many pieces of evidence that were like but
He hasn't he hasn't played this then or he hasn't played it and you're like
Oh, yeah, when you make statements about genre, you better be fucking accurate because there's a lot in a genre
Things time and time again when I speak to people about my videos
First off it's vital to make it clear that objective opinion pieces do not exist
This is an oxymoronic demand you wow, so our channels don't exist mauler. Well
Not real i'm pretty sure he has made an objective opinion. Maybe not an objective opinion piece
This does not imply the entire video would be objective
so
None of us are real. This video isn't real. This stream isn't real
We aren't real. What what is the world are we is the simulation theory, correct?
Well this come I mean, I was just gonna say this comes down to the beginning of our video where we're talking about definitions
He thinks yep, if you're object, are you real?
Mr. Bowler, I don't feel is ghost milk real objective just doesn't mean
The objective just essentially means that it isn't hinged on it on on opinions. That doesn't mean it can't be part of one
Mr. Wolf, I don't feel so good
He's
This we we were oxymoronic at this point that objective opinion pieces do not exist
This is an oxymoronic demand you are asking for the conversational equivalent of hot frozen
You're just not going to get it
It's that simple guys. That's the explanation. You can deep fry ice cream. That's true
Would that be hot cold ice cream? I don't know. I've never had deep fried ice cream
If your desire is a video of only objective facts
Then you are asking for a dry list of mechanics and low level terminology that has oh
Oh, there's another one. Oh
Oh god damn you are asking for low level. What did you say low level terminology?
terminology, jesus christ so that when so when I listen to a video about science and it's presented in an
in a fun and entertaining way
Oh because it's no longer objective. Yeah. Oh my god, jesus
The lindy beige video that tells me about why this is this and why that is that?
Oh, it can't be entertaining. It's all dry by the way
Um, there's there's youtubers. What would be ahoy?
It was what I referenced in my comment who is very objective with his analysis and he's got a voice like this
And it's awesome to listen to
He's not dry at all and the irony joseph
Have you been like if you do this you'll end up is let me let me do it better
If you do this you'll end up reading it dry
That's just you man
That's because you're dry. I can I present objective facts and I think I do it in an entertaining and interesting way
Well, I think I think I think all four of us can do that. I think joseph could do it
Well, no, he couldn't he can't even make subjective arguments without sounding completely dull. Remember all the times he tried to make jokes
Oh, that's the thing. His voice is kind of like oh, I don't want to listen to you very long
Well, I I mean this is definitely a subjective complaint from me
But uh, I tried to watch his game game of thrones god of war video
And uh, I got so bored just because of his delivery and it's not even that it's got bad content
I was just like come on. Come on sound like I can listen to matthew mitosis for hours and I have
I gotta do a lot of people for hours. I could listen to you guys for probably hours
I just I need some for hours and hours. I need some life blood in there sound like you actually give a shit
Yeah, joseph your videos don't sound like you give a fuck
But if you think that if you if if he thinks that if you if if you're trying to give objective information
That it necessarily will be dry and you lose and use low level terminology
like damn
Why did he say that why did he say low level what planet do you live on where objective facts are only given in?
dry low level terminology
Oh, have you been to school?
You are asking for a dry list of mechanics and low level terminology that has been carefully vetted for any hint of opinion or subjective leanings
Wrong talk about how a game
Wrong
Jesus I think it should be self-evident
How it's ridiculous to say that
I mean, how many youtubers have you guys watched that have a mix of objective facts and opinions in them?
That's what we do
Like exactly my videos aren't 100 i'd say that's what most youtubers do
That's how it works. We we go with we present information as research and then we often will offer conclusion
That's based on how we felt about it or or natural conclusion
I show you a bunch of hitboxes that are broken to ds2. I conclude some of the hitboxes ds2 are broken. That's just
What was the fucking emotion in that exactly?
Someone says matt's irish accent makes listening to him a spiritual and sexual experience
I mean, i'm not
Unfortunately, I don't think he would but I mean that'd be awesome
He has actually got a slightly different take to objective on on even to us he said the in a q&a
It does exist
But you can only go as far as very very tertiary elements like you can't even describe environments
you can only describe like
Straight up clinical facts about a thing like character names and stuff
And the thing is I just like let me talk to you about it because I want to see how you react when I say something like
A character is inconsistent because they chose to do x or they value x and then they do y and it's like is that objective?
Or is that based on how I feel?
And I just want to see how he reacts because a lot of people and this is absolutely no criticism of mathematosis
But a lot of people would be like I haven't really thought about it that way
You know and that's fine because again the words we're using not everybody uses
For some reason some people have different fucking definitions that they make 14 minute videos
ranting against their audience about so
It would be interesting, but I don't think matt does that. I don't think he sort of
Comes on to conversations and stuff. But again, it would be cool
Um, this is interesting. Iggy the koopa says joseph is a robot
That's why he actually hates soma because it hits him on a personal level
It marginalized his people
um
Yeah, I guess we'll push on uh, we'll go back a little bit
Is a video of only objective facts and you are asking for a dry list of mechanics and low level terminology
That has been carefully vetted for any failure in your opinion or subjective leanings
We can talk about how a game may have a sprint function a jump button and a death system
But we can't make any statements about how well they work and only the bear. Yes, you can
Of course we can so if the game is broken
How can we?
I I just can't it's bizarre. It really is
The game has a jump button, but it doesn't work 50 of the time. That's bad. Oh, wait. No that
No, you can't you can't talk about that for me remember it's it's all subjective
Even though we could sit him down and say here's the here's the definition of good
Right and here is the definition. Here's a video game and what it does
This is why when you press a jump button and it only works 50 of the time
That is not good
Here read this. Yes, this is objective. It's not good
Oh my god, I I give up the room is just as good as
I don't know alien, you know
Ride the hell retribution. It's just as good as the first mass effect game, you know green is brown black is blue
uh, I
To be fair to be fair colors are subjective in um
Water is wet in his comment. The section in my comment. My example was
Hitbox, what is the hitbox designed to do?
It's like it's designed to match the model and create damage or whatever to the player if they were to strike the the model on
The thing so the the closer you are to the model
Uh, the better the hitbox is more accurate. So if your hitbox is lazily done
This is contextual as well
It depends on say for example
if you have like
A trail behind the sword or something and if you hit the trail you get damaged too then the hitbox would have to change
But let's assume we're dealing with a straight up sword and it swings and it's got a big rectangle as the box
but the the developers were lazy and they just didn't shave it down and they kept it to
Uh two two times the size of the sword because it was like oh fuck it
Whatever and so you have several examples of you being hit when the sword isn't even near you and you're just like this is great
Because now my perception of what counts as dodged versus not I can't even rely on the fact that it's a model
I have to doubt uh compensate
For the badly leveled hitbox
And then you get to dark souls two levels where you can get hit from behind somebody when they attack in front of them
Because the hitboxes are so fucked in that game
And you know bad what I mean by bad is inconsistent or bad to a standard the standard of making hitboxes
Which is to match the models the whole fucking point people use them
So when you have hitboxes
They're outside of the models and the creating gameplay in which the player is punished for no reason of their own that is bad
And that is bad functionality
Or should I just say inconsistent functionality if people would prefer that and you just be like you can't talk about how well
These things work. It's like I just did
And what part of that had my emotions in it if you want to highlight
It's like the other part where you said you didn't like it or something
No
It's like you can get really clinical with uh with games or filmmaking development and uh, even with books
Even with writing
You can do it to joseph's video or my videos or rags. It's a wolf suffering
No, guys, we we got to just give it all up. The phantom menace is just as good as the sha shank redemption joseph's, right?
We've been wrong this whole time
Subjectivity is the way the truth and the light god something. I don't know you sound so depressed
revelation 11 4 I
fucking
I mean, I I just don't know how you can be this stupid I genuinely it breaks my brain
I
Have a sprint function a jump button and a death system
But we can't make any statements about how well they work and only the barest of comparisons to other games that have similar things
Without flirting with the dreaded oh word opinion
Uh, my my ask my question would be why why do you think that?
Yeah
Why is it that that's how it works you have one game that when you die
It sends you back to a checkpoint and the checkpoints are every half an hour and other game does it every 20 minutes
You can talk about the effects of those you lose less progress
But what's happening in each game that would change how important those last pieces of time are?
These are all things. I haven't used an emotion yet. You following joseph
You could do this. This is this is the thing if you follow this to its natural conclusion
All games could be equally as good or bad as each other
That's absurd
And then you could act like that. What is the point of teaching these things?
What's the point of even talking about it if it doesn't matter?
And fundamentally everything is the same or not the same or it's whatever you want it to be
Like there are certain classes where if you presented the idea like like I said my foundational art class
I know that if you'd said this to the teacher
That my stick man drawing is better than that person's extremely well shaded naki drawing
He would just be like it's not
Shut the fuck up like get on with actually getting better
And they'd be like how dare you it's subjective
It's hard that it'd be like how much you like it is subjective, but how good it is. It's not subjective
How accurate you'd be like what's the standard and you immediately go the fucking comparison to the actual person if you're doing a self-portrait
That's the obvious standard
What takes talent time effort skill all these things get thrown out the fucking window when you say everything's subjective
Fuck it stick figures forever stick figures on the sistine chapel
Know that van gogh is no better than the diary of a wimpy kid books
The stick fingers on the sistine
Same it's like a really badly drawn smile. It's like a wibbly wobbly
You know that woman woman who tried to restore that jesus picture and she fucked it up
Oh, yeah, she didn't make it worse. It's all the same step aside davinci devian arts in town
Even those words I just used sprint jump and death could be called into question if true objectivity is the goal
Okay
All right
So now he's saying because words could have a different definition. I assume that it's no longer technically objective
Because you could be referring to two things at once. Is that the argument there or is he talking about something else?
I think he's trying to say that
If just the idea of a sprint function in a game is subjective
And death in a video game isn't literal death. So it's subjective. It doesn't actually refer to a mechanic
That's inside of the game that can be measured repeated
Test if you want to get to that point then just have to let your audience know that by death
I mean the point in which your character is sent back to a checkpoint
Yeah, but but that's like you have that's like going back to brain in a vat levels. Well, yeah, that's improve it
So fuck it
Like do you have no what exactly are you expecting your audience to interpret death in a video game as?
Like do you think people in the copy section are actually going to go you don't actually die in a video game joseph
That's a bit of an extreme example
It's like nobody's gonna do that. Well, you can never say that there's always somebody
Could be somebody in the chat that was the other the other you go death is subjective
Used sprint jump and death could be called into question if true objectivity is the goal
These videos and articles would be like extensions of video game manuals except even those can have more character
Conversely if your desire is a video of subjective opinions that speak for an acceptable
Minimum amount of people that already hold that opinion then you don't know how discussions are meant to function
We've been talking to each other wrong guys, we can't possibly be friends at the state we don't know how discussion works
What world does joseph live in
It's like it it's like somebody built a
Dysfunctioning
automaton
Robot synth and it's trying to lecture us on what it is to be human
You guys don't get it. The robots in near automa have more personality than joseph does
Joseph why yeah death is objectively a preferable alternative to coming
Well, death is objectively a preferable alternative to watching a joseph anderson video everyone on this
This is this is he was just setting us up for the real horror video is what he was doing
Mounted people that already hold that opinion then you don't know how discussions are meant to function
No opinion is truly worthless videos like mine
Okay, worth it. My opinion is that the earth is a pancake
All just the chocolate chips on that giant pancake. There's so much to take away from that statement truly worthless. What does truly mean?
What do you know? What is it? What is this weird salad joseph? No opinion is truly worthless
Well, it's my opinion that oxygen is an animal it's trapped inside
Maybe he should maybe he should take his own advice with all the comments because those aren't truly worthless
I just don't I don't know. Why do you even feel the need to make this statement that no opinion is truly worthless?
And then what does it mean? What is so yeah, what does that mean?
That's one of those things where if he was here, i'd be like, what do you mean by that?
Is it like as someone just said is isn't the worth of an opinion subjective?
I I suppose like it's like it's like this thing is true by its own definition. It's a pointless sentence
It's like it's like saying the color red is the color that it is
My response would be joseph say what you've just said again without using any of the words
You just used find a different way of sharing whatever the hell your idea is
Because I don't know what the fuck that just meant
No opinion is truly worthless like sure
But why say that?
What's the point of even saying that function?
No opinion is truly worthless videos like mine are not meant to be a source of confirmation bias
Most content creators, but they certainly operate that way depending on what you're doing
My people finding out that I had done
This channel called maula that did a video ripping into the last jedi and an angry british man voice
If they hate the film they were like shit, man. I'll watch that
It's like why because they hate the film the confirmation bias and it's like they're not supposed to act that way
What does it doesn't change the fact that they'll absolutely be used that way? I don't know
But why are we talking about this now like?
Sometimes I just want to watch a video talking about how shit fallout 76 is because I find it entertaining
Worthless videos like mine are not meant to be a source of confirmation bias
Most content creators do not put up their videos all giddy thinking. Oh golly gee
I can't wait to see how many people agree with me
While that it's kind of funny to hear him try and emulate emotion
Oh golly gee
Oh golly gee
You like to think if like his family was like kidnapped. He'd just be like, oh no
However, do I get them back?
It's like it'll cost a thousand for your sister and he's like
How much is that in american?
I mean canadian subjectively how much is a thousand dollars in your mind?
Subjectively eventually the kidnappers just give up and they're like I take your fucking family back
He's like i've captured your family. He's like yeah, it's just your opinion
What is it to capture family? What is it to have habeo?
To hold to have the secure contained. Well first we need to find
We need to define what capture means
Fleet blue
He's thinking oh golly gee
I can't wait to see how many people agree with me while that can be a good thing depending on the topic
Why is he talking about this like?
Yeah, people don't use my videos on its own. This is kind of going off on its own little thing
So he said my video isn't meant to be used as confirmation bias
But it can the video is not released like many in a way that's like I can't wait for people to agree
It's like yeah, I agree with both of these statements technically speaking. Where are we going with this?
Primary purpose is to encourage discussion whether you agree or disagree
It should give you something to think about I agree with that statement
I do not agree with the idea that that's what your fucking horror video was doing
Because if it was you wouldn't have made this one
This is exact
The discussion was born from that video because it sucked. Yeah, you got a discussion from it, mate. It's just not the one you wanted
And now you've had to tell people how to have the discussion properly
Yeah, it's so fucking oh, it's
Oh, it's like a skit. I can't believe it with five minutes out of 14
Right five minutes out of 14 and we've got
one two three four five six seven eight nine
elements of condescension
Not bad see how many more we can fit in
the most troubling implication of statements like
Personal subjective views aren't worth discussing is the idea that opinions aren't who said that
Nobody said that and even if they did why are you acknowledging them because they would have been somebody with like one up vote
Yeah, like that's a retarded thing to say. Why are you even uh
like
Jesus man, like it's
Yeah, why are you wasting your time like approval like we'll give it to you you can talk about subjective
Opinions, that's fine
If this was my video
And I found a comment that said that or if that occurred in my head that somebody would say that i'm like
No, people don't actually think that that's not gonna waste my time. Why are you talking about that?
That's not something people think
Objective views aren't worth discussing is the idea that opinions aren't meant to change
This is also seen when opinions are used as a shield or presumed to be used as one people have also
That's what he does
That's what you sound like not you but it is you
To change this is also seen when the chat says we found it the one straw man to rule them all
I
Mean this this video is just it comes across metaphorically as a giant shield to me
It's just like he'll put this one this video up whenever anybody says anything critical of him anymore
This is a child or presumed to be used as one
People have also accused me of doing this you keep saying this is all your opinion as if that makes you immune to criticism
This could not be further from the truth
People change their opinions all the time. That's what discussion is one person thinks the movie is good
Another person around the screen. Yeah, I think he just he censored something from the game. I guess
Oh, okay. Oh
Have you guys seen the the video someone sent me to me? I think it's this game but he's um
It's some kind of plot plot hole expected plot hole in the narrative again
I I don't have enough context to be able to give this definitive, but this is a funny quote. Um
So he said he's he's gonna stop playing the game
If some mooda turns out to be at 10 p.m. Or something like that. I'm again very vague someone in chats
We're gonna know this better than me
and uh
The game turns out it's it's 10 and so he gets pissed and he alter falls the game
And his chat don't respond well because they're like it does make sense if you think blah blah blah blah blah blah
I was back and forth for a while
And there's this this quote from him where he's like you could tell he's pissed
And he says um, i'm not being stubborn i'm right
So someone died at a certain time in the game he rage quit because of that it's
Apparently a plot hole. I I again, I don't know enough about it
Sprinklers at 10, I guess and uh, i'll give him all the benefit of of the doubt. Uh
On the video I saw there was a comment that said he did retract that statement
Um like seconds after making it so it's obviously made it in an angry state
It's just funny because it makes you think like is is that a brief insight into his head?
I'm not being stubborn. I'm right
Um, I like the art of this game. What is this game?
Uh fursona
Some people have been mentioning it it's
It's drat dang dang a romper dang a romper through vision 3 v3
dang a romper vision, I don't know
Um, but yeah, uh, let's keep it going
People change their opinions all the time. That's what discussion is one person thinks the movie is good
Another person thinks the movie is bad
They argue over the points and hopefully reach some compromise or a better understanding of each other's viewpoints
Someone might even be convinced and change their mind as impossible as that may seem
Why would you use this footage if you have to blur it out
Oh, I mean he's he's been playing it recently. I don't know there could be any reason. Yeah, but like
shit, man
Tell his audience he's reusing footage from his old video
So like just like really like um
Is that someone might even change their mind as impossible as that may seem it's like
The the utter condescension just just dribbling out
Like I change people's minds. So I I mean, did you guys know that you can change your mind?
You know, yeah, I do
Interesting. I do it. I don't know I do it sometimes even
better understanding of each other's viewpoints
Someone might even be convinced and change their mind as impossible as that may seem when you've been talking on the internet for so long
It's debatable if there is such a thing as a bad opinion
But there are definitely some that are uninformed or underdeveloped. It's debatable whether there's some such a thing as a bad opinion
Okay, you want you want to know what a bad what a bad opinion is joseph?
So objectivity is implied
Yeah, yeah, that's exactly what you want mind reader mauler
part-time
God, I wish I wish I was that smart
I mean I you know, i'm not stubborn i'm right
I mean just like we were talking about the definition of good
You know, can it get an opinion be not good?
Well, if you're at the point of that opinion is to correlate with reality then yeah
You can have a bad opinion if your opinion is something that is not objectively true then that is a bad opinion
I'm going to buy this game just to spite joseph. I mean, I think he likes it overall actually so
Oh fuck this game then
We hate it. We're gonna view it badly
Talking on the internet for so long
It's debatable if there is such a thing as a bad opinion
But there are definitely some that are uninformed or underdeveloped an article
Underdeveloped kind of like the ones from your horror video, which is what everybody kept saying to you joseph
Yes underdeveloped you can I could probably substitute that with an opinion for uh unjust
If you can't justify your opinions, i'd say it's underdeveloped
Yeah, and that might stem from the position of the that might explain that the position people hold where they like don't share it
at that point like if
If you own all you're interested is in arguments for why the room is bad
And I just tell you I didn't like it over and over again
You'd be like, yeah, can you develop that because I can't work with that
It's like when people call into the atheist experience show the host asks and not what you believe necessarily, but why do you believe it?
Yeah, because the opinion that you have or the belief that you have is based on a solid foundation if you can justify it
If you're if you have good reasons to believe the things that you do
Which is far more interesting or well that's subjective
Yeah
Agree with doesn't just function as a way for your mind to be changed about a topic
It can also act as a spark that strengthens your original opinion by challenging it so strongly
That you finally work out why you feel the way you do about something and none of this counters anything
Commenters have accused you of this is just something that we all agree with because you just say it stated obvious shit right now
It's like yeah, minds can change opinions can be uninformed. You're like, yep. Yep. Yep. This is all fine. Now address the points, please
I had some comments on the odyssey video that said just that even though that video is fairly negative
They went into detail about how me explaining what I didn't like about the game
Made them realize why they like it and they got value out of the video and now that can definitely happen
I could highlight an inconsistency
And then h bomber guy can say the inconsistency is why it's consistent as he did for dark souls 2 which was utterly insane or the
It's it's in it's complete in its incompleteness. That's what he said
So yeah, you can highlight an issue
Looks better than fallout 76. That's racist
But yeah the yes, these are things that can happen Joseph. This is not addressing the argument though
Is this super mario odyssey? No, this is skyrim modded. No, it's super mario odyssey. Shut up
It's an unlockable level. That's my opinion. Yeah
That way, you know, it's about a game. There's nothing objective to say about it
Yeah, no, I was criticizing the game for most of the runtime
In my view that's only half of the issue here though. I think that all right
So that face hasn't aged well, by the way that hair it looks like his brain
Uh
Prepare so he's setting up here that he's going to be putting qualifiers on each statement
And so and the point will be that if he was to
Signpost every opinion or in this case subjective opinion
Then it would be a clunky script because it would ruin it it would ruin the flow
So this is what he's doing right now. So the runtime he's being meta in my view
That's only half of the issue here though
I think that most people watching this video will recognize that this is elementary stuff
however in my view discussing this is necessary because I think that there are a growing number of people who in my
experience
are demanding that every sentence in every video include a
I think that or in my opinion in order to avoid presenting opinions as objective facts
And I don't know about you guys but my response to that is just you need to improve your writing at that point
Yeah, you don't have to use those words. There's a lot of ways that you could say it
There's a lot of personally if you just put personally and then write what you're gonna say
Maybe might I think it's up for debate
Whether one could say it could be said that it could be interpreted that yeah one might believe
It's not unreasonable to think that's not to measure by the way. This does not protect you though
So if I said in my personal view every single turquoise
well
Every single game has no controls you'd be like
That's not true. And then I go but it's my opinion and I did signpost it and you're like, I know
Like that doesn't shade shit
The way I see it it takes me on average about one second to say those opinion tag statements in my opinion
This would lead to unnecessary clutter when writing and recording scripts for videos. That's why you read
This whole section that was condescending this entire section
Well, yeah, I can't I can't put a quote down because it's all said in a condescending tone
He's like he's talking down to the audience
He's explaining to them that what they want is stupid and now he's explaining to them how in the most
Basic terms you what you want as he points to his audience
What you want is for me to say all these things
These things take time to say and they don't add anything to the argument as he continues to point closer and closer to
their face you you
Don't want this. Do you understand now? They're like, that's not what I said
Like that's how it ends. Yeah, we're not saying that you have to preface everything within my opinion
I mean aren't you are you a shit writer? If you're a shit writer, then yeah, maybe you do
I mean, that's your problem
You're saying it is like this this one's all on you my dude if I was to do like a full-on
You know assessment of Joseph Anderson and look at his writing structure in
Each of his reviews. I may be able to make a statement on that
But from what I remember he has some structure just that this is just sad to be like there's nothing I can do but
Put in my opinion the beginning of every fucking sentence. It's like Jesus
For something as long as fallout for one year later
I think that the extra time onto every paragraph would result in well over 10 minutes of padding in my view
This is a worthwhile demonstration of the problem. Just continue continues to explain this when nobody's asking for this anyway
You think that it would take 10 minutes of filler to add some qualifiers to your shit? Fuck off
What what a horrible writer you must think you are
Nobody's asking for that. Nobody
Show me the person who said you needed my opinion at the beginning of every single fucking sentence
Problems that would result in appeasing this demand and again just to qualify there is gonna be the one guy
But that one guy is the I found him in the youtube comment section. I found him
There he is. I found his proof or something quicker
I think that you could look at the time added to just
Right. So now if he presented this to me and was like, this is the only choice I had to be subjective. I'd be like
What stops you from putting in my view in my view? That's only half the issue here though
I think that most people watching this video will recognize
That most of this is elementary stuff. That's fine. However
Discussing do you need that in my view? However discussing this is necessary because I think
There's a growing number of people who are demanding you didn't so you put in my experience was unnecessary redundant
Yeah, it's redundant. Take it out who are demanding that every sentence in every video include you just say a qualifier
You don't need those examples and it should be and not a
Um
Yeah, that's true in order to avoid presenting opinions as objective facts
Um, I just the issue is more complicated than that
But fine the way I see it it takes me on average about one second to say those opening tag statements
And no, so that's objective. You wouldn't need to say in my opinion
This would lead to a necessary clutter it does because these are repetitive words that are doubling up in some cases
So they would be repetitive and unnecessary. So that's an objective statement. Yeah, that follows the definition of unnecessary
It's funny that he doesn't understand this shit man, and it's what ruins his scripts
Oh, it's ruining this script
Anyway when writing recording scripts for videos for something as long as fallout for one year later
I think the extra time onto every paragraph would result in well over 10 minutes of padding. No, that's just a truth
Yeah, that's just a truth
Uh, that's not a subjective opinion in my view
This is worthwhile demonstration of the problems that would result in appeasing this demand now
He should have put a comma there at the end of in my view
We just need it because again that would be true
This would represent a good demonstration a strong demonstration of these problems. We've identified the problems are repetition and clutter
What would represent those?
Well by putting in my opinion the beginning of every sentence which he has done and it's presented, you know
Like this isn't your opinion, you know
He you know, you could probably take out unnecessary before clutter because unnecessary clutter clutter is unnecessary. Yeah
And so this has not done a good job in convincing he's not even proven his point
efficiently
If the point of this is to say that look at how brief it can't be and we're telling you no
You fucked up a few places. We can make this even more brief. It's redundant. You have extra words here
uh
Improper use of n if we wanted to we could argue that he's actually being a little bit disingenuous here presenting it as much worse than even
For the people who are asking for in my opinion the beginning of every sentence. He's just presented it as worse than it actually would be
Yeah, I mean if you added one second to every sentence surely that wouldn't add up to 10 minutes
If it did, that would be 60 times 10 six
So it would be 600 minutes the video in the first place, right? That would be how you do it if it was one
If it's 10 minutes, he said it was six hours and he would add 10 minutes, right? 10. Yeah 10 minutes
Yeah, there would have to be
Essentially 600 if it takes
Even if though it doesn't matter because the fact would be that uh, if he had enough
If if you hear in my opinion once per two minutes even that should be spread out enough that it wouldn't be distracting
If it's a fucking long ass video, but again
That's another topic of being a good writer is you can change it. You don't have to say in my opinion
Change it up with loads of different ways
Make it much more interesting
Oh, well
Varied would be see see what I mean
What else highlighting those words earlier if I say it's much more interesting that's subjective, but if I say it's much more varied
That's objective
Language folks just how it works
This paragraph i'm speaking right now from all of the I think that statements that I went out of my way to include
That's a whopping 10 seconds for you didn't even you didn't need them
Yeah, you didn't need a lot of them no
However in my view that that's also not right
Yeah, plus like even the one after follow-up one year later. I think that wouldn't be needed because it would add time
Objectively it would add time
20 paragraphs in this script and this is one of my shortest videos and remember it's not just time
That's the issue. It restricts sentence structure creates a ton of monotonous repetition from the same statements again and again
Yeah, depending on the writer
Yeah, if you're a bad writer, I could see why he's telling his audience now
See this is where he's fucking up as well on his own fucking opinion like he got
He's telling us it will result in monotonous. That's just an objective statement
It will result in a monotonous structure and it's like but it won't
So you're wrong and you'd be like well, it's my opinion that it will and it's like fucking hell joseph
This is what we mean about a shield you just escape it every single time everybody is able to criticize you in any way shape or
goddamn form and hampers how creative and varied the script writer can be
I will stand by the statement that writers get an opportunity to be creative when they're hampered by rules
So if you if you like put them in position
That's when you if you're free to do anything creativity is obviously
Available but to to do something with restrictions. It's like the premise of
humans having to solve problems
You have to use creativity. So yeah, just he's not right on this
This is this is his subjective opinion and it's bad
Okay, it's bad
So why can't a subjective blanket be assumed to rest over everything with some sprinkled in my opinion statements
Throughout the script as reminders which most script writers already do including myself
How would they remind us are they not qualifiers what's about to come afterwards?
So I feel like if you do it specifically that's a qualifier for what comes next not a reminder that everything you're saying is your opinion
This is a great example of um
The difference between what people are seeing and hearing versus what he thinks he's putting forth
So everybody hears him present objective arguments and then say in my opinion
Blah blah blah subjective subjective as a result of those objective things for example
You collect 10 moons in the exact same way in mario and then he says in my opinion. This is boring as fuck
That's fine. If you've shown the 10 you've shown how they they're monotonous or the exact same
And they they take let's just say for the sake of argument
They all take an hour of mario standing still and they generate on the spot and that's how you get them
so you and I don't know it has to be
Active like you have to be moving the camera, but you can only stay still
Um, so you go all these pieces of information you go. I find this boring and I would imagine many people would
um
But obviously the actual actions are very much monotonous. There's no way you can get out of that because it's
Fucking definition. That's how these words work
So that's what people thought was happening while he's saying what was happening the whole time
Was it's all subjective and he was just throwing in random in my opinions to remind people it was subjective
Yeah, I mean if you really like if the script you were shown if if the page that he gave us the paragraphs he gave us
three sentences
Cut it down cut it down so much filler. Just cut it down. That's three sentences worth of info
Yeah
Like all you have to do is just say in my opinion then give your spiel
And you don't have to say it 15 times if you've already said it at the very beginning
The following section is my opinion
And uh, yeah
So what i'm trying to highlight is that this is the disconnection between him and his fan base apparently where he thought this whole time
That they were just waiting for more qualifiers for the in my opinion thing
and uh
Yeah, I just he's he's fucked it up. But um, I was gonna say the
Question the the next comment is with uh, having a lookout rag. So, um dusty links
You want if you want to read it dusty links
As in the cat the kitchen
So wait
Where is the part where people actually tried to discuss your reasoning of what makes a game scary?
And then when someone lists their reason why they think outlast or soma is scary
You respond with a flat responsive because that's not scary
Don't tell me you're trying to make a discussion out of these videos when you yourself don't even discuss it with your viewers
You flat out shut down and dismiss the conversation your viewers are trying to have with you
You are being dismissive and don't look at things from another's point of view
You don't even need to agree just acknowledge how you could see something like that being scary, but nope
Instead you just shut them down
Almost half of this video was consisting of you talking about how it is not practical by starting each opinion with well in my opinion
We already know that's not practical
Many of your fans were really questioning your reasoning with what makes a game scary and to be honest
They had every right to question your reasoning, but you had no right to shut them down when they did
I don't want you to say that you're critic that can't take a critique, but it might be true
anyways, I really do hope you realize why a lot of fans were questioning your logic about scary games because
I would have to agree with him that your logic is severely flawed
so there are these things are being listened to and responded to and I just
I think he's underestimated
His audience's position quite significantly or at least a portion of his audience
um
And yeah, I think that it's no better highlighted than this moment where he's like
Guys, you just want me to say in my opinion more. It's like no, that's not it. Not even a little bit
Script writers already do including myself to avoid this issue
Well, there are two sides to this problem the way I see it
The first is that some people are being genuine when they react with outrage that someone is trying to pawn off an opinion
As an objective fact that there really are people like the one in the opening example
angry when someone says that
That's can you put that on the list? Well, there's actually people in his audience who are ripping off this shit
I don't even know how to put that it's just like yeah there are there are there are totally implies audience cannot stay dressed
Yeah, i'm gonna put that
If anyone reads this this is like an actual summary
Yeah, if anyone reads this like as a summary they'll just be like did he really say his audience can't stay dressed
Yes
in in a roundabout way
Um
But yeah, I was gonna say maybe i'm gonna read all the super chats at the end because um void of this video is making
All right
Yes, let's let's kick on matter of quantity and compromise how many reminders of opinion
Do you need in a script? Is it half of all opinion statements?
75% or is it really all oh, why do you think why do you think that it has to be a flat percentage?
It's condescending really do you need me to say it for every sentence
It's like yes joseph, that was the only problem they had with you
You know, the problem was that he only did it for 15% when the optimal number is 56%
I didn't bring you do a test with 56.7. I think so. It's technically 57 if you can
Yeah, we should round up. Yeah, because it rounds up. Yeah, that's objective
Yeah, round up rounds up. Yeah, that's objective
I look at this as being the same as citations that are used in textbooks
Not everything is referenced and backed up with direct evidence even in history books
There's a compromise you make with the author
Did you really just say textbooks while showing a book from skyrim on the screen? Look at what he's showing now, dude
Jump fleet disagree precious joy frightening graveyard variants fun puppy. He didn't need to show it actual fun puppy
Well, yeah, it's just kind of strange the imagery he decided to put on screen that doesn't really
Support the thing he's saying. Well, I mean have you listened to the argument though? This
Yeah, ignore the video just take this one this argument here this one's contentious for a lot of people
This is being the same as citations that are used in textbooks
Not everything is referenced and backed up with direct evidence even in history books
There's a compromise you make with the author that some information
If it was a history book typically it has evidence
What are you talking about that's ridiculous no, we just made that shit up so all those pictures of the holocaust they're just nope
Well, I just wanted to give we just wanted to give the jews a reason what I will say is uh
Rags, I know it's a long one, but it's just it's just perfect for this action. So the next comment
is from
Theo the oat tree, I guess the the oat tree the oat tree. I'm not sure what you're supposed to go with that
The oat tree. This is a response to the history book thing history is implied
Deal that that's great
Dude the parallel you're drawing to academic work specifically regarding history is that's my area of expertise
It just doesn't exist when using facts as a historian
I'm expected to be able to source my information and if I cannot reliably source that information
Then the fact is unreliable and and unusable
Some facts do not require a specific citation in academic articles because they are so commonly known to be true
The battle of hastings was fought in 1066 near hastings, for example
Nothing more than a quick google search is required to find a deluge of cross references that confirm this fact is true
And as the intended audience of the essay becomes more specific from historian to medieval historian
To a medieval europe historian to medieval france specialist the understanding of what common knowledge is
changes
Common knowledge to an audience of specialists in medieval france is very different matter to the common knowledge of your average
educated reader watcher
Hence the need to cite thoroughly is dependent on exactly who your audience is
The average reader will trust a professor of history
When they make an unsighted claim because that professor speaks with authority
And the work more than likely has gone through a lengthy process of peer review in order to vet out inaccuracies
the historian cites information so their work is reliable and
Contextually does not need to do so if the information is common enough to their target audience that it needs no verification
How is this process in any way similar to signifying that you are giving an opinion not stating a fact
It is vitally important that a critic makes sure their audience understands when they are describing the mechanics
And how they correspond to the developer's intentions versus how they are as a consumer responded to the subject
The differences between analysis of art and debate over history is that games implicitly have intentions behind them
But more importantly
We have clear understandings of the mechanisms at work and how they could be changed or improved to further the intentions of the developer
When you say death ruins horror games
That's a blanket statement about a genre and then supplies to every single horror game ever made
Have you played every single horror game ever made?
I doubt it
And making statements about entire genres is a very difficult endeavor with very low returns
Your language indicates that death is an issue that plagues the entire genre
But what of a horror game where death isn't even a possibility? Well, you brought this up by the way
Or a horror game that can only be attempted once eliminating the possibility of response
You see what's happening here?
You've made a statement and i'm attacking it
Because your previous video presents a very strange idea that is argued for in a way that isn't convincing
Not to mention the presentation giving the very
Explicit impression that your criticisms are faults of the games not a personal reason for not caring for them
If your video is intending to share a personal feeling
Why were references and mechanics brought in criticisms made in solutions proposed?
If there's a solution
There's a problem
If there's a problem we're talking in objective terms and you just want to share your sentiments
You can't be caught saying death ruins horror games as that's a straight up objective claim a vulnerable under informed one
But an objective one
Objective doesn't mean true. It means measurable
Your statement has qualifiers these qualifiers can be true or false
Your claim's validity depends on the validity of his qualifiers
So when you make claims that seem from our audience's perspective to talk about an entire genre of medium
You fail to make the line between description of reality and a personal assessment clear
I really hope you can see why your audience is having trouble here
The language you use makes it incredibly unclear whether you're assessing mechanics or giving a personal feeling
Horror games fail to scare me is not the same as horror games fail to scare
And you use the latter with the unreasonable expectation that your audience will hear the former
That's an excellent comment. That's just a mic drop right there. This is like that's such a that's really good
That's a really thorough response
I love you theo
Well, that's yeah, that's excellent
Yeah, you know that we were as much as we could rip apart the history section
I was like, I think he's done it in that opening so better than we could
Uh, the only contention is that by I guess I would have is that
technically
history isn't a
technically the stuff that we say
Hi, it doesn't matter. It's getting too pedantic. Let's just move on. Well, is it gonna be like there are some things about facts?
It's about history and facts and what we can show you prove and things like that
It's very complicated. I think and that's part of the problem with joseph
History books don't always need to cite stuff. It's like what the
If they don't cite stuff
Then how is that how is the history that we all know the accepted story?
Which is essentially what history is what we all accept to be the story of what happened based on the issue
Everything in between it doesn't relate because when they don't cite something it's because it's already been cited before
That's not the same as you not telling people that something is your opinion when it is
Yeah, the history books even in history books
There will be sections that say while many scholars disagree or we don't have conclusive evidence or we just don't know yet
Here are the ideas that have been proposed
It's just a crap comparison
And if if you were to try and make it more relevant
You need way more time than this if you're gonna go over how like 20 seconds story and cite information and how it's verified like come on
In textbooks not everything is referenced and backed up with direct evidence even in history books
There's a compromise you make with the author that some information is considered commonly understood and agreed upon and that most of the references
Will be contentious points or newly discovered information that needs to be sourced
It is unnecessary for everything to be cited just like most opinions in an article don't need to be labeled as such
That's not the same
It is an understandable expectation to want to label on all of them, but it simply isn't reasonable
The second side of this problem are people who know full well that there can't be a label on every opinion
But still point it out to weaken an argument that they disagree with
This could be caused by an emotional reaction that makes them grasp at any counter that's within their reach
Or it could be a calculated response because they are so invested in arguing against whatever position the article has taken
One that they find so abhorrent
So he's saying that's yeah, he's arguing that they're doing it in bad faith at this point
Like he's saying you possibly know that they're disagreeing in bad faith and they're using a grasp at strollers to do it
like either they have an emotional investment in the
opposite
argument to the article or
they are
Like that was the malicious intention was to recognize that they're essentially losing the argument
So they pick anything to work with which does happen by the way, for example
If if I do an hour analysis and then I go your black panther video makes no fucking sense
You said that it begins in 1992 when it begins in 1997. I'd be like that
That's like that's not even relevant to any of my arguments. Theo is in the chat
Really?
Oh, yeah
Where yeah, he said thank you everyone in chat who is saying nice things hard
I noticed
I mean, you know what when we when we get to the end of the video we can have theo jump in if if they want to
Theo we love you
Wolf's definitely in love
You're the official fifth efapper. You're now you're part of efap lore. You did it hooray
Yeah
Um, but yeah, that's a crazy coincidence
Well, I yeah
Everyone's like hey theo wow
Hey, everyone's like wow, everyone likes me for some reason. I just
Theo's been in discord for two days more to pay attention. Oh
Send me a frab request that i'll be able to get you into this easily
Once obviously we've got a couple things to get through but then we could definitely have you on every position
The article has taken one that they find so abhorrent
For these people the only answer that I can see is for everyone else to remain vigilant and not allow these responses to gain legitimacy
It's killing discussion and making
So like if you were to give him a little less benefit of the doubt you could actually construe that what joe just said is
People are picking up on the fact that I am saying subjective arguments and portraying them as objective
in order to destroy my my arguments and it's like
That doesn't even make sense if they're talking about the framing versus your argument
And then just just like everyone you need to ignore or go after these people you have to stop them
Civil war in the comment section. Oh, yeah, there's definitely a fucking civil war in this comment
Every comment that we've covered will have responses of people being like you fucking understand what joe was saying
I
And not allow these responses to gain legitimacy there's only one response that matters in its theos response
That's some that's some truth right there killing discussion and makes things worse for everyone
ironically, especially for those who also disagree with the article and want to properly argue against it
The reason I know this is happening is because I have received comments that have accused me of adding opinion labels as a sneaky way
Of presenting my views as facts like some trojan horse that can force you to change your mind
But is also telling you at the same time
No
How is that a trojan horse?
If no one can say that it's forcing you to change your mind and how would it be a trojan horse if it's labeled?
He's like it's a trojan horse that I tell you about
It's like so it's not that it's not a trojan horse the whole point that the trojan horses don't know
Like listen to that again. That's such a confusing statement that he makes happening
Also, you can't force anyone to change their mind
Belief's not a choice
Yeah, he's missing
Just missing the point stop missing the point received comments that have accused me of adding
labels as a sneaky way of presenting my views as facts like some
trojan horse that can force you to change your mind but is also telling you at the same time that it's trying to
In these cases, it's not a trojan horse then
And even if I don't even know what point he's really trying to make with that bit like that's just confusing
In these cases directly pointing out that i'm voicing an opinion still isn't enough to stop people from dismissing arguments with this excuse
Why is that a bad thing if I said in my opinion soma has no enemies in it
They'd be like you're trying to pass your opinion off as if it actually has some validity, but it doesn't you've based it on fucking nothing
And you'd be like well
I mean you can't get a bond that removes the enemies, but i'm assuming we're judging the dot mod right now
And I mean we one would assume
That if it's your opinion, it has some validity to it because if it didn't then why would it be your opinion?
It's just so much eyebrow raising stuff in this video
Isn't enough to stop people from dismissing arguments with this excuse
Does all this mean that there's no place for objectivity in videos like mine?
Certainly not and I think it's worth discussing how evidence can strengthen arguments as well as satisfy what I consider to be the
Responsibility of a content creator that has attracted an audience big or small
The basic structure that almost all arguments in my videos follow is a subjective judgment on how something works supported by objective evidence from the game
Sometimes the opinion sorry, I want to stop there. Um
So i've just i've been thinking about this, uh sort of example, I guess of um
I I an instance where you would say something that kind of doesn't fit into the mold that he's presenting here. So imagine if you
You said uh that runner has the best time in the world
And the reason why he has the best time in the world is because nobody in the world has run faster than this time here
Therefore he has the best time
That's an objective statement backed up by facts
so
If somebody were to say this is the best game ever made and here's these reasons why
Is that somebody's opinion because best has a very specific definition?
Uh, somebody says is the what if what if I argued is best in in that it made the most money?
Well you could if you qualified it that way
You could do that
Yeah, the qualification is important. I do. Yeah, that's a fine thing. That's a fine thing to do. There's nothing wrong with that
In fact, I think it's better
I just find it interesting that you can take a sentence like this is the best
Something and then make it a video game or the all of a sudden it no longer means the same thing
kind of ridiculous, I think
You just need to be
Careful with the words that you use that's that's really all there is to it
And comes first and then the examples show up to reinforce it sometimes
It's the opposite and i'll say what I think at the end
And that's a process that even I and on wolf and right whoever will use say for example
I just I present all of my arguments to you about the last jedi and then I say I fucking hate this film
By the way, like seriously hate this film and you could be like you didn't even need to have that but it would be my subjective
Uh opinion on the film after I presented all of the reasons for why I felt that
And that's fine that doesn't he's implying that that's what he's done this whole time and that
People shouldn't be annoyed at him because that's what he's continued to do
It's like joseph if that were the case and why has everybody gone nuts on your fucking horror video that was retarded in terms of research
Why do you think that is?
You just you just like oh, it's just a weird coincidence. That's when everybody got mad at me
And then what how to explain the response to this video too like
Are these not reasonable questions they don't understand they don't they don't get they don't understand how discussions work. Yeah
Let's let's have a run through. Uh
It's implied by the basis of communication if you understood what it means you wouldn't want it
Uh, they talk about x instead of anything that's in my actual video. They're self-righteous
They're using a perceived error as to a way to dismiss his argument
These comments contradict themselves and they function as they get a discussion
A discussion free card. I think oh, yeah, get out of a discussion free card
And they don't have to waste time of thinking counterarguments when they can just do that they're asking for low level terminology they don't
Can't really settle these things they don't know how discussions are meant to function
Someone might even change their mind as impossible as that may seem implies the audience can't stay dressed
Do you need to say it for hundred percent of the opinion statements essentially arguing in bad faith it's like joseph
What are you doing, mate?
I want to be absolutely clear here because I already
He's been so clear man. So clear say what I think at the end
I want to be absolutely clear here because I already foresee the comments below saying that i'm a giant hypocrite and
Try to pass off my opinions as objective after all
Objective evidence does not mean an argument is infallible
It only means that the examples are from the game itself and are tangible proof that the things I am talking about actually happened
We agree with this statement
Moving on
They could still be bad arguments
The examples may not match as well as I think they do or my conclusions may be far from what you think of the game
When studying the same examples i'm using
What if that's a conclusive argument though? Yeah, I was gonna say that can happen
That scenario where you present a piece of evidence that is objective and you can draw multiple subjective conclusions from it
Such as tommy yzo's acting in
Thing is unbelievable and then someone goes and I know I hate it
I can't get into the film at all and someone else goes I adore it
It's what makes the film so good or so entertaining I should say
Mm-hmm
So yeah, that's a that's a thing that can happen and it doesn't it doesn't push this argument one way or the other
The whole subjectivity is implied thing
Right, but I mean like, um, I think what I mean is he's saying, you know
You can use evidence to make a point, but it's still a bad point
But what happens if you use the evidence and you make a conclusive point?
Yeah, what if what if the evidence is the evidence and then you say something that's correct? The sun is big. It's really hot
It's plasma. It's a star
That's correct. So then what what happens now? Is it objective or is it still a subjective implied opinion?
Well, he said the second that you're uh saying something factual is no longer an opinion. It's a fact. That's what his position is
It's still an opinion it's just also a fact
Yeah, well he doesn't agree with that that's the biggest problem he has
The thing is like you can say it's not just your opinion. It's your opinion and your opinion lines up with what the facts are
Yeah
You would say you're not presenting an opinion you're presenting a fact but I said in my opinion so it's my opinion, right?
No, I said it. I don't know. I don't know how you defend that one
That's what I mean because that's why I might actually talk to him. It's also my opinion that the sun is a star
It's my opinion. It's my opinion that it's a goose egg
You can't prove me wrong. I can't argue. I can't argue with that
Like I said, we are all the chocolate chips on the cosmic pancake and you cannot prove me wrong
Metaphorically, that is objective
Most people I see what you did there
Subjectively it's objective examples i'm using
I think that this is what most people mean when they say they want more objectivity in articles and reviews
They know why didn't you just say this is what people mean?
You just said I think that why did you put that there?
Why didn't you just say this is what if subjectivity is implied you could just said this is what most people mean when they say that because
Objectivity and subjectivity are a clear defined difference. He knows the difference
He just likes to fucking write his scripts quickly
I don't want to have to deal with three percussions that sometimes he makes mistakes. That's this fucking video
I'm not even kidding. It's like deal with it. You make i've made many mistakes in my scripts
If I go back to old videos, i'll be like, oh, I shouldn't have said that like that
Well, oh, yeah, I could have said that better. I'm doing it with my read drafts. I look at a read draft
I'm like, what the hell was I and you have a moment when you're writing sometimes you just go
Then you look back and you go
Oi oi veis. I need to correct this
That's fine
It's I don't just go. Well, it's all subjective show. Yeah, nobody expects perfection
But to to be so stubborn because you're right
That would be the case, wouldn't it joe?
You're right. Then once you start saying once you start putting in your video things like I think it's my opinion
Now we're like, well, I mean if it's implied
Why are you saying it here and not over there? And if we want to be super meta
You know if we want if we want to be super meta, is this is he correct here?
Is he correct or does he just think that he's correct in the subjects correct subjectively or correct objectively?
Well, I mean like if if the takeaway from this video is what is it?
Is he right or is he only right in his opinion now with this argument that he's made?
Does he think with absolute certainty that subjectivity is implied and that's correct?
Are you asking?
If he's well, i'm just i'm extrapolating his his argument in this video to
The video itself is subjectivity implied or is it just in his opinion that it is?
Because he said that he said a lot of things like oh the basics of language, you know, this is how it works
So which is it? I don't know
Is this impossible for you? This is what I mean
I can't like that just doesn't make sense
More objectivity in articles and reviews they know full well that opinions cannot be objective
But they want something supported by evidence or failing that
An attempt to represent more perspectives than just the writers when it comes to a formal appraisal of something
I consider content creators like myself to be obligated to provide the sort of evidence in most cases
My opinion is not worth more than anyone else's
But it's undeniable that it has much more influence
Uh, where do I begin?
Well, I would say that it's worth a lot less than everyone else's how to fucking undercut your channel 101
I mean opinions all work more or less to be like to be like
Oh fucking shit
I oh man, that's not right
That's that how can I mean for example if a climate a climate scientist?
His opinion matters more than mine on the subject of climate because he knows more than
So yeah, it is worth more. I mean gee
And with with the subjective again, which is it depends on what what you qualify, right?
It's like now you have to take the position to your audience that like what do they what do you pay?
What is your audience paying for then?
If your opinion isn't worth more than anyone else's
What are they paying you for?
Deniable that it has much more influence
My videos on fallout four get so many views that just today more people will listen to me speak my opinions on that series
And most people will be listened to about anything in their entire lives
I just just just dude when you redrafted and read that out
You should have noticed how fucking how much you were sucking your own wing wang right there
I I don't think I have ever seen
or heard
A more pretentious thing in my entire life
That ego is the size of mount evarist my doom
So joseph
There is a right way and a wrong way to accept the fact that you have a large audience
This is not the right way
Jesus christ like
You can guarantee that that will be in my april fool's video and you know
If any of us said that in our videos unironically, we would get this shit ripped out of us
It's just it
That's a really how do you say it with his dick in his mouth? Like I don't
Because he's got a little dick
I
Come on joe
Why did you say that is so unbelief? I can't even believe he said that
Today more people will listen to me speak my I almost want to apologize to eric taxon, but i'm not gonna do that
This this this script of this video is the writing equivalent of eric taxon's face
Pfft
Well, hey joseph anderson does have like a striking resemblance to wormtail from harry potter follow. Yeah, so
he
His own face kind of substitutes for it. I
Forget so many views that just today more people will listen to me speak my opinions on that series
Then most people will be listened to about anything in their entire lives
Presenting he's got a fallout 4 video. I guess and just he thinks that in one day more people
It doesn't even matter if it's true joe doesn't matter if it's true
It's failing
Like I said
There's a right way and a wrong way to let your audience know that you understand that you have a large audience and you can accept
That with the level maybe you say like I feel like with this audience and you guys supporting me
And you guys empowering me with this, you know with
being an audience of mine that
I should speak truthfully and that I should mislead you
And you know stuff like that and and I shouldn't waste it and that I should um, you know
Accept responsibility whatever you want to say, you know do your thing
But like damn son
Like you only have that because we're here
Yeah, like
Just humble keep it keep it even slightly humble, please
You can just say like just because i've i've got
Uh a large number of subscribers just on a daily basis
Um more people are gonna hear the things that I say than perhaps people who watch me
Which is that's just a statement as opposed to saying in their entire lives
They're not going to get listened to as much as you did in one day
That's not the right thing to say
And like he's so out of touch that he just he was like, yeah, that makes sense for me to say that's fine
just like
You it comes along and says joseph anderson
That little that little pipsqueak nobody no one listens to that faggot
Oh, you can't say that you can't talk to her if you say that don't say that right. I look I haven't even
Because when I said that I was speaking as a hypothetical of somebody yeah, he was quoting he wasn't
I was quoting his hypothetical
It's like once you once you measure yourself
And and you're worth in that way somebody else might come along and say oh, yeah
Well, your views aren't anything compared to mine. I should have done that when he complained
I should have said it wasn't an insult. I was making a subjective view on
uh
Subjective I should have just said subjective. It's subjective that it's an insult
Taking a list of unsupported opinions would not just be less interesting
It could also be harmful to how people view things since they may take my words on faith
Without any evidence to properly judge whether they agree with me or not. This can wait. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait
Wait, they they'll take my what I say at faith
If even if they don't have any evidence then saying that's a potential I guess
Well for it's redundant. Well, yeah, it would be like if us four release videos saying that uh,
Fallout 76 is amazing and we don't even have evidence. We just say it's amazing. There's some people out there who go
Well, if they say it's amazing. Okay. Yeah, I I trust rags when he talks about things
So it must be amazing because which generally rags has good opinions
And and so and so joseph unwittingly identifies the issue with his horror video
It's interesting. It could also be harmful to how people view things
It is harmful to the horror genre that you told everybody that it's not scary because
Broken that you're a superhero in it. You're fucking red
Since they may take my words on faith without any evidence to properly judge whether they agree with me or not
This can lead to groups of people repeating information about something that they don't fully understand because they trusted an unsupported source
What you mean like uh horror games?
John because you told them that it doesn't yeah, but they shouldn't have done that because it was subjective and they just didn't realize
Should I get home i'm looking for a good horror game. Should I get soma? Well soma's not a horror game. Oh, okay
Mario that might be a horror
It's the doom is scammy. So it's a horror game. No, that's uh, that who was that for that was like pat that was
Was that clapec?
He wrote that article about doom
Oh, right. Oh god, was that grayson or who wrote that who it's hard to keep track of all the tisms
Someone someone wrote an article about your file is later. I could finally visit doom because I could stomach the violence and so
What there's some soy boy, uh fucking uh game journalist
Jesus it's like nathan grayson. Joseph. Anderson isn't really a critic. He's not scary
Somebody in the comments said
The people repeating information about something that they don't fully understand because they trusted an unsupported source
And maybe that's what some mistakenly believe is happening when there aren't enough in my opinion
This was some people mistakenly believe what is happening
That clip just perfectly encapsulate encapsulates fallout in a nutshell that
Running around and punching something until you die
I know that doesn't have anything to do with
represents joseph video
Tags throughout an article just punching a removable force
Don't think that's the case
Oh, wait, let me uh
Throughout an article, but I don't now it's the beginning of mess effect too
We just came here from fallout 76 where I died after punching your robot. I hope you're following it makes sense. Shut up
And maybe that's what some mistakenly believe is happening when there aren't enough in my opinion tags throughout an article
But I don't think that's the case
We're all intuitive enough to know when something is an opinion even if it isn't being formally presented as such
Yeah, because subjectivity is implied and that's why you had to make this video
You've proven yourself wrong on that one. It's kind of an oxymoron, isn't it? It's implied, but you had to tell people that
Yes, that's the funniest name for a video
I say soma fails as a horror game
Then it's easy to understand that I don't think that everyone who enjoyed it as a horror game was somehow wrong
I see it saying saying that soma fails as a horror game is not the same as soma is not a horror game
apparently
The idea is that like he's gonna talk about what it means and then you end up saying why didn't you just say what you meant?
You know the idea he's like soma is not a horror game. What does that mean joseph? It means it didn't scare me
Why didn't you say that joseph?
Well
Just fucking lost. It's okay. Just I should have I should have been more clear
I should have clarified what I mean to say is x
She's gotten off his high horse. He still seems really defensive over it when all he could have said
I can't believe he's still pushing that it was the correct thing to say. It's like joseph
Do you know how language works like that was it?
It fueled me to complete my series on soma because I was like you're fucking lying to people
Yeah, those people are pointing out the stuff that's happening in the background rarely has anything to do with what he's saying
You know and it's always swapping around to something else. It's like I hate it bugs me
Then you are lost
Joseph's not a kid. He's not you know, it's not that badass. He didn't get boon turned into darth vader
At least anakin was attractive
The horror game was somehow wrong and didn't understand their own feelings
It's simply an opinion without the tag just as we're all also intuitive enough to recognize when something is being dismissed as an excuse
Yes, we're all intuitive enough to recognize it and that's why you keep telling us we're not getting it
Like throughout this whole video you can't how do you make this ending to this video?
This is like completely at odds with everything you've just said
In without the tag just as we're all also intuitive enough to recognize when something is being dismissed as an excuse to not directly answer
the points being brought up
Or maybe not maybe i'm wrong and this growing number of people complaining about this issue
Really do need to have an indication that it's an opinion in every sentence. Did you catch that guys?
Yeah, that's uh, that's another one to put in the list beautiful sums up his whole opposition
Maybe my audience really is that stupid?
That's oh that probably bothers me the most out of all of them because he he's almost human
Right there. He's nearly there. He says maybe i'm wrong. Maybe they're right. Maybe they are really stupid and it's like
No
Your april fool's video is gonna be like the greatest thing references to everything
You
It's over anakin
What was that sorry it's over anakin i have the implied ground
Oh
This issue really do need to have an indication that it's an opinion in every sentence
It makes me recall that saying if everyone is special then nobody is
Can't you do the same for opinion statements if every sentence needs one can we all agree they're better than others don't
But not every sentence needs it
If I say this game doesn't work the input like it doesn't respond to player input you fall through the ground
That's bad
I don't need to say in my opinion. It's bad
You underestimate my subjectivity
Don't try it
And then he hits publish on subjectivity is implied you were the chosen one in my opinion
Em says in the chat joseph just engineered a situation that no matter what only he can be the correct one
Oh that that pretty much sums this up. Yeah, he's yeah, that that yeah em, which is hilariously ironic consider
It's called subjectivity
That is joseph response theory frame your response in a way that no matter what could possibly happen you could not be wrong
That's that's great
Think that the occasional reminder throughout an article is enough in my opinion. Anyway, thank you for what?
Let's make sure we caught that ending properly
Can't you do the same for opinion statements if every sentence needs one can't we all agree that most of them don't?
I think that the occasional reminder that doesn't make sense if every sense needs them that can't we agree most of them don't like
No
That's not what need means enough in my opinion anyway, thank you for watching at least he thanked us for watching after the fucking cavalcade
of conversation
God, I hope I never
Jesus christ. I hope I never behave like this to my audience. Yeah, it is. Just there's nothing else, right?
Oh wait, let's let's make sure there's nothing else like credit wise all of you people
Although if your name is on this list you just paid to be insulted. Good job
It's not even an exaggeration
God, I do that for free carl and yohan and zoe. Good job guys. You paid this guy to insult you. Yeah, josh w
right
So there's three comments to go through that remain rags and then uh, we can bring we can bring feel on I guess
Why oh, there's why would he blur out the youtube comments, but he didn't blur out his patrons
I don't even you didn't even blur out all the youtube comments. Yeah. No, he he only blurred out a few
So let's check out these comments, I guess we're on chris adams's yeah
Ah
The long awaited joseph pedantically and condescendingly explains why his videos cannot be criticized
I responded to in any harsh way because it's all just my opinion bro video
I expected something like this to be around the corner as soon as you publish your video on horror games
Honestly, i'm not surprised you felt you had to make this
I've been a subscriber of yours for a few years now and i've seen a lot of the flack you taking your comments for
The way you words your videos I can genuinely empathize with this
Scripting ain't easy people will continue to find issues in your writing even after a million read drafts and that's frustrating
You'll never please everyone and I get that
What I don't get is that you don't seem to understand why you receive the criticism that you do
As time has gone by I've taken issue with your videos more and more because more and more you veered away from
Your fallout for an uncharted video. So great
So as a service to you
Assuming you read this i'm going to lay out my complaints about your channel as brutally as possible
Here's your problem
You still label all your videos as critiques
This is great for seo and promoting your channel
But it implies to your audience that you'll be analyzing and comparing objective values with and between games
As long as you're actually doing that it's fine
It's not the part of the video that people like me take an issue with but when you say things like soma fails as a horror game
Dark souls has no story
This fight is not fun or challenging or hollow knight's pacing is bad without qualifying these statements at all
It comes across as entirely combative
Not just for people who enjoyed those games, but for people who appreciate a certain quality of writing from the analysts they listen to
I'm certain that you know this
Anyone who had a different experience than you could challenge you and prove you're wrong
You're clearly aware that opinions work this way since you mentioned early in the video that these challenges have been posited to you
Since your very first video
But instead of altering your language since then
Maybe asking yourself what you could have done differently to avoid vitriolic retorts like this one
You've consistently doubled down to the point where you are now blaming your audience for taking issue with the things that they say
Beyond that sorry with the things that you say
Beyond that you're straw manning legitimate criticisms of the way you word and structure your videos watching a movie and saying I
Didn't like that to open a discussion is entirely different different to an hour-long video called dark souls 3 critique
But even making that ridiculous fallacious comparison is missing the point of the arguments against your content
You want to freely mix and match your objective statements with your subjective ones?
You want to call your video a critique and discuss objective merits of design elements
But you also want to put your opinions in the middle of these sections
It's fine if you want to do that, but i'm sure you understand that it's bad writing
So then you want to avoid taking responsibility for the language you use
But more simply you want to create content without anyone who watches it holding you to any account
To that end we now have a 14 minute video of you smugly talking down to your audience about how we don't understand language and
Heavily implying that anyone who disagrees with you just isn't smart enough to watch or engage with your content
Then you have the nerve to preach about holding discussion to a better standard
I have too much my dismay wants the quality of your writing deteriorate over the
But worse than that i've watched your integrity as a game critic deteriorate as well
This video more than anything is proof that you're comfortable resting on your laurels and when challenged
You will say things like my video on fallout 4 exerts more influence in one day than anything you create in your life
Hearing statements like that from a content creator is hearing a death knell for the creativity and passion for which you won't subscribe to them
But more than that
It shows how deeply couched they are in their own ego
At this point accepting a challenge on your content is admitting to yourself that maybe your work isn't as good as you think it is
And despite what you say
You don't want discussion
You can no longer take criticism
You don't want people airing conflicted opinions on your videos, but you absolutely cannot admit that to yourself or to your audience
Listening to you talk from about 4 30 onwards was hilarious to me because you typically won't engage with dissenting commenters
And will instead rely on your adoring fans to lambast us into silence on your behalf
You're perfectly willing to sit tight in your echo chamber instead of responding to the people who don't agree with you
And don't get me wrong
I don't blame you
Dealing with the scope of negativity typically found in comment sections of just one youtube videos extremely taxing
But then having you turn around and profess that discussions must include opinions from all angles
Knowing from a fact that you don't practice this principle it demonstrates in no uncertain terms what a hypocrite you are
In short this video was terrible, and I hope on some level you realize
It's heartening to see that most of the people commenting here are calling you on your bullshit despite the disproportionate like dislike ratio
You have finally achieved peak smug like erin hansen h bomber guy thunderfoot and so many others before you
The way I see it the way things are going this channel has nowhere to go but down
I truly hope i'm wrong as i've enjoyed so much of your content in the past
I genuinely want to see a return to the quality of writing and analysis that drew me to your channel in the first place
I guess a man can dream
Does theo have a cult of people that just write novel sized comments?
I mean I get a lot of novels in uh in a lot of
My videos i'm sure you guys probably do as well, especially when it comes to like media people are really passionate about. Um, oh, yeah
It's just that these ones are so
Based entirely on like a history that they share with the channel almost
A lot of people are saying they want to hear joseph's response to this comment. So i'm gonna try and uh get it up
For us
Why
Apparently, so I just got to find it again on his video. So this is chris adams
Load a bunch of comments. Give me a sec chris. Ah, there we go
So, uh
Oh dear so joseph's is probably three times as long as this one. Oh, jesus
uh
I don't know if I can like can I link the comment to people or something because I don't know if we can read all
Of this out. We'll put it in the um
Keep putting the discord and let me see what exactly I don't know
How do I link it to you? All you need to do is load up a joseph's video
And then load comments and then search for chris adams
Mueller's trying to get it up. Yeah, you're right though. Like the comments are um
Increasingly you're seeing the more, you know
Critical comments because initially it was just people
Chris adams. Here we go. Ah, yes, i've got it
Have joseph's not doing too good in the comment section on that either
Like jimmy christmas do we want to actually read this whole thing out or because
Uh, we can encourage everybody to go and check out his response if you'd like, uh, obviously
Because I don't the problem is it's too it's too large even for efap right now considering where we are
Because we want to get the on as well. It's actually
Wolf had a special
We got there's two comments to get through a sec. So go back to the um, the ones we were actually showing
So yeah, if you guys want to see
For that real quick there were some quality prequel memes in the chat. Oh, yeah
My favorite ones so far
Don't lecture me mauler i've seen through the lies of efap. I do not see subjectivity as you do
I have brought implied subjectivity arrogance facts and insults to my new fan base
Um, all right new plan we're gonna do the rest of the comments we have planned. We'll bring theo on
uh to talk see how that goes if if we want to then read out his comment and response with that could be the last thing we
do just because
How many how much time although there was something else that we wanted to look at
Well, we got two comments left for rags to read out on the on the thing
These are two are short anyway
But they're they're just they're just more of a punch line basically. Um, so the first one was serich or serach serach
I mean I can read them out if you want. I don't mind
Serach
Might as well finish it up
Serach says I started disliking joe more and more as I watched his content
He starts to grind you out when he's being incompetent at something and blames it on everything but himself
Other than that i've never taken him seriously. I thought he was more but sadly
He's just another game essay youtuber who had a good streak took a term for the worst and let it go to his head
Good luck in future projects joe
the last one
Qe says poor man's mathematosis
and that that's it and you know what we're trying to highlight with these comments is that the
The response from his fans has been just one of passionate disappointment. I suppose you could say there's loads of approval by the way
There's plenty of comments that are like yeah joe you're right and all these guys are assholes that sort of thing. Oh
I did say I was looking for like
Passionate agreement like a like a big comment about how how much people get this wrong or something like that. But um
I'm sure they exist again. You can always look for them and stuff
But uh, yeah, that's just sort of an interesting selection of comments considering the video which
Going through it as per the condescension might actually be my biggest issue with this
Not even the fact that he's trying to talk about a subject just the whole like how he fucking did it
But yes, um
Wolf did you want to was it something you wanted to do?
Oh, yes
So I I read this incredible book recently it's
possibly the greatest thing
ever written by another human being
And I felt like you all needed to hear this
inspiring passage
That I found early
Early on in the book if you would like to hear it
I'm sure the chat would be
Well, they'll lose their minds over it
Okay
All right
So this is uh, this is an excerpt from uh
the world renowned
single reviewed book
Interstellar marines
This is just
Yes
This is a this is a book by joseph anderson
so, um
Just make sure you you pay careful attention to how it's written
And maybe some things will become a little clear
The nightmares started on the first night
Reese was a baby in his crib. It was in the middle of a field in the middle of the night
There was
What
There was a breeze blowing that was rustling through some trees
He couldn't see them. He couldn't see anything except the stars in the sky
They kept flashing like tiny fists expanding releasing fingers of light
With each flash the crib shook he tried to roll over
but he couldn't
He closed his eyes when he opened them again
His parents were there
Neither of their faces were visible. They both looked like someone had grabbed their heads and twisted
His father appeared down into the crib
How did he know that how did he know that they were his parents if his their faces weren't visible his subjective rags jeez
Hold on. Hold on. Wait, we we we haven't read all of it yet. We can't take him out of context
Maybe he explains it. Yeah
His mother's hair hung from her face like a melted mass
Maybe it was like mind keep in mind her head is twisted backwards. So he all right. Okay. Okay
They circled the crib and the flashes in the sky and the vibrations from the ground came with each step they took
Mutilated giant stomping around the baby. What? Oh the parent. Okay. Okay
I'm following I think yeah, I got you
The blinking stars continued to grow brighter the dark sky was filling with light
But his parents kept growing larger like they were fighting to keep the crib in shadows
The ground shook again and this time it didn't stop
Reese's parents put their hands on the rim of the crib
They leaned down to him his mother's hair covered his tiny body
She she whispered something and then began to scream
The light was burning them from the sky chunks of her face were peeling away and falling through her hair
They landed around him and continued to burn
well
So the uh, baby having a night so right at the beginning of this of the paragraph
He said that it was nighttime and then said it was night time again, if I remember correctly
Yeah, it starts off with the nightmares started on the first night
And then it goes into he was in the middle of a field in the middle of a night. Well, that's
That's
I'd have recommendations for editing on that one. I have read that's all it's not i'm not saying I could write better
I'm saying I'd rather recommend it. That's it. Um
well
I
What do you guys think? I mean well if you've reviewed books before what's what's your take?
um, well
It it's
It's interesting
However, I do want to draw some attention to the fact that interstellar marines
Is only the first part in a series of absolutely
incredible novels by
joseph anderson
these novels include
the wizard
and the dragon
You can are they are they capitalized?
Um, no, you're doing that
The wizard and the dragon well the wizard and dragon
Parts, the words are like 50 times the size of the other words in the title. Oh
He's also got such works as
interstellar soldiers
the monster slayer series one the monster slayer series two
bounty hunter series one two and three
the lost starship
The haunting of moon base 13
Oh, well that you know, that could be that sounds
13 as well 13 and uh, just just so all of you know, um
the cover art looks like
Well for a lack of better terms, it looks like it's made in gary's mod
Uh, also i've added i've added theo to the chat now. Hello there. Hi there
Oh, he's got a voice there
I was I was considered you might end up with like one of the crappy bikes or something that ends up happening
Is it of reasonable quality? No, it sounds good to me
Wonderful. I was afraid it might be like like a
screaming 10 year old british kid
I'm afraid you've hit the british part. But oh my history banger
Yeah, you got me history and philosophy
How uh, how are you? How's your day? Um
Night, but yeah doing great
Well, it's the morning I yeah
Might be three. Yeah for me because this is what i've been doing all fucking day
Yeah, me wolford, right because I don't have a life, you know, it's just how it goes
Uh preaching to the choir here. Oh, um, i'm assuming you
You a fan of joseph and one of us three or maybe all of us three. I don't know
Found maula first, uh, which one of us you hate the least
Oh, that's a good question
Probably fringy he's green. Yeah, I was about to say fringy. Sorry what what?
Uh, but yeah, uh, i've found joseph anderson's videos in passing before
not
pay huge amount of attention to them, but
He always had this
Way of speaking I guess way of speaking. Yeah, it's condescension. Let's just be blunt about it. It's the condescension and it's
abjectly horrible to listen to especially when he's just
Wrong. I don't know what you mean. The comments we've collected are just so friendly and happy
It's implied by the basics of communication. Don't you like it when people tell you that?
Not really especially since one of my modules on this year on the philosophy side is language
I'm studying language and joseph anderson is telling me how communication works
Well, what did you have you did you see this whole stream or were you in sort of the later part of it?
Um, I caught all of this stream. I missed the
Previous c-fat because I was busy. What do you think of our take on language considering we're all none of us have studied it
I don't think or at least official
I did it in year 12. That was my
My subject that I did the best in at school was english
I was gonna say I did english language in gcse and a level
But I don't know if that's really comparable to like taking it to actually studying at university
For the most part taken as
uh in sort of like as a working usage of language rather than trying to delve down the philosophical rabbit hole and find out what
Things really mean or whatever
Your way of using language seems perfectly reasonable. It allows discussion to take place
In fact, i'd say it's almost identical
Sometimes to the way joseph is using it, but he just uses different words and assumes that they mean different things
For example
I'm pretty sure if you put uh the idea of an objective opinion and a subjective opinion to him in the form of a rational
And an irrational opinion he would agree with you
He just doesn't like the it's semantics, isn't it? That's what it comes down. Yeah
Doesn't like he's bogged down in the semantics. He hates the word objective
The definition of opinion would support more so would it be us or him easily you guys like well
That's interesting. Obviously we're not saying that you trump everything, but it's just interesting to hear your opinion
Obviously, it's it's in the english dictionary and it doesn't have to be based on facts or knowledge
But it does not say that it is not based on facts or knowledge
That reminds me of the thing I said
Yeah, he's a lot like what you said
um
so
Uh, what was the was it the history comments that made you want to write your comment on his video or uh, yeah
Don't bring my don't bring my beloved into this it happens an awful lot in um
In critical analysis in
Everything of this particular field people will try and drag history in as if history has some kind of comparison
I did such a weird. Yeah, like
I guess it's because there's a perception that history is always sort of set in stone
Maybe like maybe that's just what it is because yeah that happens in the past
It's probably because the term historiography as opposed to history is not as well known
Historiography being the study of how history is studied and the concept of historical debate
So people I don't think he's covering that in his uh, his 40-minute video
People still debate how like whether certain events could have been avoided
So on and so forth who bears responsibility for certain events in history and such like these are debates that happen
Um
What's your reaction to his comment that uh
his fall out his fall out for video
Gets to more people than some people get to in their entire life
well
It was relatable for a while but now i'm here so
significantly less so because
That's just that's just harsh. You can't put down people's ambitions of
Like telling people things that they care about telling people about things and like
Generally criticizing and analyzing things that they are passionate about like that
It's just rude cruel uncalled for
Almost vicious. I'm the thing is it's like it seems like he didn't even in to be
I'm not sure better or worse. Yeah, like he didn't know what he was saying almost
Like you he looked at his innocuous it was just like oh, it's just a thing that's true and it's like dude you
It's it's dangerously close to i'm fucking better than you
In so many of his sentences it's just the syntax you can clearly see there's
So there's so many problems like in that sentence
There's so many ways he could have phrased that that it does not come across as an attack on people
Who do not have the same platform as he has he doesn't even need the second part
He can say there are many people viewing my videos
Uh daily I would even not I wouldn't put it that way myself either. I would be like my videos can exude influence
Uh, that's it. That's all you need actually for his his point
That's all that's necessary to make the point he was making he didn't the last bit. It's just a jab
Yeah, it's just like I get I have more influence than most people do with their entire lives in one day and less than mathematosis
Well, he's got more subs than mathematosis, but he doesn't have the respect of mathematosis
Is one of the best some of
I don't know who he is wolf's a bad pick
Yeah, that one was really great that one was fantastic
I will have to check it out. Everyone's been fawning over him and i'm like, I don't know who everybody's been efapping over
His devil may cry commentary is great as well, even if uh a bit on the long side
But I don't imagine that's a problem for anyone here
Oh, i'm just trying to get it
Sorry, what did you say I didn't actually catch I was doing something
Sorry, I just said his devil may cry, uh commentary was good as well, but
Clocking in at six hours if i'm not mistaken
I think a lot of the future in this
Yeah, it's totally the right crowd for this one
We've got his reply up to to uh chris adams
I was gonna say if if you've got it rags, we can tackle this now with uh with theo if you'd like
Yeah, i've gone and found the comment as well
Oh, I mean I could read it if you want to read it rags. It's up to it's up to you
Um, you're oh I had it I closed the thingy
People think this video was good i'm like this is fucking shit
Um
This is we're looking up which one jones's uh the response to chris adams
So if you define chris adams, yeah, so, um joseph comes back and says
um
To me less thumbs up. There's a thing. Uh, so as a service to uh, I say so he quotes
Here's your problem. You still label all your videos as critiques
Uh, this is great for seo and promoting your channel
Should I just read the responses parts or do I need to read the quotes? I guess we need the context in case
I don't know. It's up to you
um
Let me see so
He's quoting here's your problem. You still label all your videos as critiques
This is great for seo and promoting your channel, but it implies your audience
Analyzing and comparing objective values with and between games as long as you're actually doing that it's fine
That's not the part of the videos people like me take issue with but when you say things like someone fails as a horror game
Dark souls has no story
This fight is not fun or challenging or hollow knight's pacing is bad without qualifying these statements at all
It comes across as extremely combative
Not just for people who enjoyed those games
But for people who appreciate a certain quality of writing from the analysts they listen to
Joseph responds these statements were qualified in the videos. You are incorrect
Aside from the dark souls has no story one
But I don't believe i've ever explicitly said that in a video only in the comments or other discussions outside of the critiques
So if you because if he if he implied it in a video and then confirmed it in a comment
This is the thing he doesn't actually need to argue against the person's argument considering he's already said well
I implied some objectivity. So meh, but dark souls has a story. It does. It doesn't have a story. Yeah
Like so that's just incorrect entirely. There is a plot. What's it? What the
Yeah, I mean some people say that like, you know
You're the undead and you're going from one boss to another and you get to the end
It's not really a story. It's like there's still even if you think it's thread beer. There's a story
There is a story
Yeah, there's clearly a sequence of events that take place that yeah, exactly
And there's a conclusion to the story as well a conclusion to the narrative
It has an obtuse story it has a story that you have to look at otherwise, but it's it exists
There you go
Joseph says soma fails as a horror game was discussed at length with examples to support why I think so in the video
I'm pretty sure I talk about why I think this for 10 minutes and his references were pitiful and a lot of them were subjective
It's like I was good with this
And finally even if they he had everything right you wouldn't be able to make the statement he made
You can't make the statement soma fails as a horror game in any way
It's just wrong. Like I don't know what what criteria you have in which that is valid. It's like it doesn't make sense
But you know
The only way that statement works is if soma didn't scare him and that cannot qualify as soma failing as a horror game
Well, you realize all you should have said is soma didn't scare me and you're like, oh, why didn't you say that?
Because you have to be because you have to be stupid
So he has to be impactful. That's an impactful say do you remember how he delivers it?
He does each word at a time he goes soma is not a horror game. It isn't scary
He likes pauses his video to do it
Just just impactful also someone said why are you not um getting all your references and responding in a video instead of shit posting?
You're better than this want to address the person i'm working on videos on something else. This is something I can do
Uh with instead of not doing it at all
And I think we've done a really good job to be honest
I mean we've been going for hours. We took I I did all the references in advance. We've all seen the video in advance
We've we've done our best to actually argue for joseph hannison in a lot of sections
We broke down the I think it's due to with the fact that he defines words differently, but he's also extremely pretentious
He doesn't deal well with criticism and he's smug as fuck
And I think most importantly
Everybody here would be keen to actually talk to him about this
Oh, and I am salty about soma
Yeah, because what joseph hannison said was fucking retarded and it and it did the thing that movie uh film bob was talking about in
the previous efap the one about uh
Shinobi where he said that cinema sins will actually cost sales by telling people movies are bad when they're not
Joseph costs frictional game sales by telling people that soba's not a horror game
Which is not true, so it's just this is the kind of reason it's like I think I i'm salty. Yeah, i'm salty
It didn't scare me. It's not a horror game
Anyway, that's the standard
He states that he discussed at length with examples to support why he thinks soma fails as a horror game
But then he back pedals to state that subjectivity is implied and that he is talking subjectively from his opinion the moment his qualifiers are attacked
Yeah, that's what's happening here. He doesn't
Respond to like he doesn't defend the qualifiers. He just abandons them and runs away
And even then
It's going from from his perspective. It's not a horror game if it doesn't scare me
Which again, which is factually incorrect. That's it's not an action movie because of
Me i've got to be honest. I would abandon that qualifier if it was my position to defend
just
Yeah, that's what most people that's what I why can't you just say that why can't you just be like?
Yeah, what it means is I uh, I didn't find the game scary even a little bit and then someone says
Why didn't you just say that and you go next time I will because obviously this is not translating my ideas correctly
And i've got a different take on on what these words mean, but most people don't share that take so
So, um quote this fight is not fun or challenging joseph says you're going to have to be more specific about um
I think this is that guy's comment on his comment. I think I don't know jose. This is joseph saying this
It's just fairly poorly written. Okay
So that's why it confused me
Because i'm reading this and it doesn't form a cohesive thought so I have to stop and my brain has to catch up
You're going to have to be specific about when you think I said this without giving a reason why
But I am confident that I have always backed a statement like that up with evidence
The only video I may have not done that was in the dark souls 2 level design and bosses
I think that's my worst video. So i'd agree there. I criticized this one for that
I used a quote from it as a bad piece of writing. So
He agrees yay quote hollow knight's pacing is bad
Joseph says I went into arguably too much detail justifying this claim
So I cannot begin to understand how you can say that I don't qualify these sorts of criticisms like this one isn't even remotely close
It's so out of the realm of accuracy that I question if you even watch the video
Unfortunately, I'd have to watch the video to know
too long on something what happens if your qualifies or you're
Kind of irrelevant or pointless or what if they constrain how he like this video here like he contradicts himself in this video here
He shoots his own point to pieces because he goes on for too long
Eventually, he contradicts himself and which one of the two things are we supposed to take its value?
Which so next time seem smarter
Uh
I'm so so quote i'm certain that you know this
Anyone who had a different experience than you could challenge you and prove you wrong
You're clearly aware that opinions work this way since you mentioned early in the video that these challenges have been
Positive to you since your very first video
But instead of altering your language since then
Maybe asking yourself what you could do differently to avoid vitriolic retorts like this one
You've consistently doubled down to the point where you are now blaming your audience for taking issue with the things you say
Joseph says I have not doubled down
The opposite is true. I have made a concerted effort to say in my opinion
I think that more often than I think I should because of comments about objectivity
In my most opinion-based video. I even gave it a title that communicated without any ambiguity whatsoever that I was presenting my own perspective
How can you look at the previous video and think that i've learned that i've leaned harder into the issue?
I don't know. We've already tackled how the title does not automatically it's it's just so ridiculous
He shouldn't he agree with me if I say the title of my video is this is all my opinion
And then I start stating facts throughout the entire thing
So then he with his definitions he would be like well that video title is inaccurate
Like what i'm getting at here is he's like I even named it that and it's like it doesn't matter what the title is
If that's not the content of the video
Also someone they did highlight you skipped the by the way part uh rags of what you said about the hollow knight where
Just under the hollow knight bit
Oh, there's a line there. He says by the way
I'm not saying my reasoning for any of these is airtight and 100 correct
But you're not saying that you're claiming that I didn't qualify any of these statements, which is not true
So going I can't we can't know for sure unless we watch those videos
um
Quote
Beyond that
Let me see
Quote beyond that you're straw manning legitimate criticisms of the way you word and structure your video
Watching a movie and saying I didn't like that to open a discussion is entirely different to an hour-long video called quote dark souls 3 critiquing
But even that even making that ridiculous
The lacious comparison is missing the point of the arguments against your content
You want to freely mix and match your objective statements with your subjective ones
You want to call your videos a critique and discuss objective merits of design elements
But you also want to put your opinions in the middle of these sections
It's fine if you want to do that, but i'm sure you understand that it's bad writing
Joseph says
This goes against what I say in the video above this comment section. So what's happening here?
Did you not pay attention or do you not believe me?
There are no qualitative
Qualitative objective statements in my videos. There never have been there never will be there is no mixing and matching
There is there has been a statement. Yeah any statement about merits is subjective
Any statement about merits is subjective
So he says he says as they are again, let me just let me just check the definition of merit
The quality of being particularly good or worthy
And what is worthy it'd be like it depends on what standard you're looking for
Well, we've already we already know the definition of good and good can be qualified in an objective
This is not 100 subjective. It depends on what you're fucking saying joseph
Yeah, he says any statement about merits is subjective. No exceptions
The only objective statements are directly from in-game evidence and have no judgment about quality
They are examples to support subjective points. What do these people think quality means?
Only subjective like
The standard the degree to which you achieve a standard equals quality and the standard can be how it made you feel
The standard can be how efficient is this hammer in terms of its, you know balance its weight?
It's blah blah blah. There's all these different, you know, talk to topic turtle. You are incorrect. Uh, we're
Turtle says worthy and good require a value-based framework, which can only be subjective
No, I don't agree
Well, it depends if he's arguing from that whole everything is subjective thing which if he is yeah, that's fine, but that's a worldview difference
You know like yes, it is objective. The scissors example can be judged through object
Objective standards having the qualities required for a particular role
Once you name what that role is you have objective standards by which to judge them
The thing i'm curious about is if you in a vacuum like ignoring the context of his previous videos
Asked joseph anderson if he believes the statement
I mean first off it's called a statement
If you asked him if he thinks the statement soma fails as a horror game
Is a definitive judgment about a subject or a personal feeling on the matter. What would he say?
Everyone would say the former
Yeah, but now I feel like he'd say the latter oh he would yeah to defend himself
But that's but that's why i'm saying without the context of his videos. All right, then the former yeah
right
Yeah, no, he's wrong
He'll he'll pick whichever one he needs to
Escape out the back door
Yeah, so
Quote put more simply you want to create content without anyone who watches it holding you to any account to that end
We now have a 14 minute video of you smugly talking down to your audience about how we don't understand language
And heavily implying that anyone who disagrees with you
Just isn't smart enough to watch or engage with your content
Then you have the nerve to preach about holding a discussion to a better standard
joseph says
If you want to link to a point where you think i'm talking down to my audience and explain why to me
Then feel encouraged to do so because I don't believe I did that
I believe maula has a list. Holy fuck joseph. You are just on another
A few there's a few examples
And that's one video yeah, how long is that video 14 minutes?
I mean jeez, yeah
Interesting
Uh, wow. All right
It didn't do nothing. Yeah, like we're not saying anything right now. It's just like we're in disbelief
Like do you actually need us to prove this like he actually doesn't think that he said any of those
In this video here. This is the problem. I think he doesn't even realize he's talking down to his audience
Damn, man. I it's like that's like we were saying when we were watching it
I would never say some of those things about my audience that he did. Yeah, it's really bizarre
to be honest
He has explicitly stated he believes his audience doesn't understand how conversations work
If they're criticizing his previous video and how is that not talking about I didn't smugly tell my audience
Like oh, you know, I more people are going to see my video than they'll ever
Her whole life
Like come on joe. Are you are you really going to try and sit here and jerk us around and tell us that you didn't say that
I'm just wondering again if you sent him the timestamp would he
How would he respond to that or would he respond? That's just subjective
What's interesting is that if I did it that way
If I looked at my if I looked at my comment section and said these people don't understand me
Then that's my fault
When he's when he looks at his audience and says they don't understand me. He says that's their fault
I mean
I'd say the context for you looking at your audience and there's like one guy in 10 million that disagrees
It might not be your fault. But in the case of having outliers notwithstanding. Yeah, but if you get
several essay long content with
Comments that are stacking up on your video that are in massive disagreement and disappointment with you. There's some things up some things up
That would yeah, that's right and and might not necessarily
Like that you're wrong, but there is definitely
Something that's happening. That's sort of disconnect. Yeah, there's something at least
And why not then engage with those people?
Well, I think he thinks that he is engaging with them. That's a thing
Yeah, he probably thinks that this was a good response
Yes
This is the direct opposite of engagement he's made an entire video justifying not engaging with his audience
Anyway it it moves on
Quote I have much to my dismay watch the quality of your writing deteriorate over the years
But worse than that have watched your integrity as a game critic deteriorate as well
Joseph responds
Examples you criticize me above for not qualifying statements and then drop this with nothing to back it up whatsoever
It's a youtube comment. So that's cool
You don't have to but you said you're trying to provide constructive feedback and these sorts of statements are worthless
He's not necessarily wrong. Wait a second. I thought
No opinions were worthless
Oh it pays to have memory doesn't it
Oh joseph that's kind of fucked up he sort of
It's funny because we said when he said it that there is such a thing as a worthless opinion. Surely
A lot of the time we've been holding him to his own standard not necessarily
Yeah
That's yeah, that's all this is really like
That's rough. But um, this person has provided
I can't I mean they provided examples
But the thing is like the somer example that goes back to 2015
So, you know, they would need to be more specific if they wanted to make some kind of
Extended criticism I guess but it's just funny that he did go back on his his own statement there. It's interesting
Um all the consistency that we do expect from joseph anderson, of course
um
He goes on so he quotes this video more than anything is proof that you're comfortable resting on your laurels
And when challenged you will say things like my video on fallout 4 exerts more influence in one day than anything you create in your life
Hearing statements like that from a content creator is hearing a death knell for the creativity and passion for which you once subscribed to them
But more than that, it shows how deeply counts they are on their own ego
So joseph replies that statement has the opposite meaning of what you're taking
It's demonstrating
It's demonstrating that I have a responsibility to support the statements. I make in my videos because they have that much influence
humble product
It's supporting what you said above about qualifying statements in the videos except that i'm arguing that i'm consistently doing
That I consistently do so I also say right before that my opinion is not worth more than anyone else's
How is this about ego because you said that more people listen to you in a day than many people have listened to their entire lives
I don't know. What's the disconnect there joseph? You wrote that
He just doesn't see it
Let me give an example joseph you're in the you're in the gym and you have a friend you go with every day
But you only do um, like cardio
You're just trying to lose some weight and this friend is doing full-on muscle work and every day he comes in and he says
I'm stronger than you and then I carry on working and you're just like, okay
Okay, and it's like why did you say it and he goes?
Oh, well, I just wanted to make you aware that uh, that's the kind of routine we're doing
I'm doing like strength and pick up muscle work while you're doing running and stuff. It's like
Why are you you just said that you didn't need to say that you're strong
And then you go there's a bit ego that he goes how is it about my ego is true
It's just there's a better way to get these ideas across
You don't even need to make the point he's
Making with reference to his influence. No, I didn't I have a responsibility to support the statements I make if you have 10 subscribers
You can make that statement
I have a responsibility to support the statements I make
Yeah, you don't even need to
Regardless of how many people listen to
Yeah
Let me
I want to clarify by the way for people who because I know that people will feel like it's an unfair comparison
What i'm highlighting is that there's ways to get information across to people and how you will choose to do it
It'll often have a telling statement about what your your actual goals are or how big your ego is and yes
There is a huge problem with with with ego within people of not realizing it and not checking it themselves
And you often need friends to check it for you or people who know you
um
This is going to be something that any youtuber deals with because you you are putting your
Your words out there as if they should be listened to that's why you make the videos
You're like people should listen to this. It's not just for me. That's why i'm putting it out there
so
to translate certain messages to people
You can choose many ways of doing it and just the way that he did that is very telling
That's that's that's what the the point is
Like we said when we covered it. It doesn't even matter if it's true. That's not the point
Um, he's adopting he's adopting the
objective formal critique style of
Game analysis, but he's unwilling to accept the baggage that comes along with that
In the form of having to defend your opinion after it has been stated
The fact especially when it's your job
Yeah, that's because when when you tell someone something they are not obligated to believe you
They are free to question the premises on which you make your conclusions
And when they do that joseph anderson runs away
A little bit it's so bizarre
I genuinely don't understand it
Yeah, uh, we've got just a bit left
Yeah, almost at the end so he quotes at this point accepting a challenge on your content is admitting to yourself that maybe your
Work isn't as you think it is despite what you say. You don't want discussion. You can no longer take criticism
You don't want people airing conflicting opinions on your videos, but you absolutely cannot admit that to yourself or to your audience
Listening listening to you talk from about 4 30 onwards was hilarious to me
Because you typically won't engage with dissenting commenters
And will instead rely on your adoring fans to lambast us into silence on your behalf
You are perfectly willing to sit tight in your echo chamber instead of responding to the people who don't agree with you
And don't get me wrong
I don't blame you dealing with a scope of negativity typically found in the comment section of just one youtube video is extremely taxing
But then having to turn around and profess that discussions must include opinions from all angles while knowing for a fact that you don't
practice this principle
demonstrates in no uncertain terms what a hypocrite you are
Joseph says
This part is why I decided to respond because this is total bullshit
Have you gone through all the
Have you gone through all the comments on all my videos?
Read all of my twitter replies and sat in on every stream and discord discussion
Because if you haven't you have no idea what you're talking about
I discuss my points with my audience all the time
How can you even begin to think that you can speak so confidently about this when you clearly have no idea what you're talking
About did you even look to see how many comments I replied to on the last video?
Reach back how condescending you're being when you are literally talking out of your ass. Ah, that's not what literally means joseph
literally talking
Writer joseph. You should know what words mean. You do not need to make up shit to criticize me
I'm sure there's enough you can find and make an argument on
um
Yeah, I just you know, it's amusing that he's got the whole uh
You'd be called to said dig. It's like
Yeah
It would take moments maybe minutes to go to his previous video find someone providing
uh counter arguments or just disagreeing with his stance and then
You know find an example of him being dismissive towards that person
Yeah, and I think what the person's highlighting isn't that he doesn't respond and ignores everyone
it's the like his form of I guess responding is like
Evasion or
Uh, he's not how do I put this like when you when to take criticism to take criticism isn't just about responding to it
like reading and responding
um
So yeah, but but the guy joseph's right if you don't look at every single conversation
He's ever had I suppose you can't say that he will never take criticism or cannot take criticism
Um, but those are obviously I would I would assume those are hyperbolic statements. We don't know
The hype probably is implied
Yeah, well joseph and didn't pick that up so
This entire comment was fairly hyperbolic. So from the overall tone of it it's easy to infer that he's being hyperbolic again
Yeah, like if joseph thinks this guy is saying that he's seen every single conversation taken place between joseph and any one of his fans
Maybe you're looking a little too far into it because I wouldn't have assumed that myself
But all right, so
Uh, he is to wrap it up quote in short this video is terrible and I hope on some level you realize that
It's heartening to me to see that most of the people commenting here are calling you on your bullshit despite the disproportionate like dislike ratio
And joseph answers most of the commenters agree with the video. I know this because I have read almost all of them
Something tells me you haven't
Appeal to popularity fallacy that that's great. Um
Um, well, yeah, so he said it's haunting me to see that
Well, he's in fairness
He said most of the people commenting here calling you on your bullshit and he's saying
Most of the commenters agree with the video that is an actual fair counter
If it was in response to the video is terrible that most people liked it that you'd be right
But uh, yeah
That's that we could keep going because it's a thread that
Continues. I don't
I mean, we will literally be here forever. I was gonna say I think
I think it's good to to halt it there. That is
joseph anderson having a lot of difficulty with with his fan base currently and and the i'd say the main point seems to be the idea of
Objectivity versus subjectivity and the delivery of those ideas that seems to be it
We know that joseph does not take criticism. Well, I mean
Mahler wasn't it you that like found he argued with someone who left a review on one of his books?
Uh calling him a troll. I think so, but
Again, i'd have to get the quotes to be able to make anything definitive, but I remember being amused
That's very subjective
Uh, but yeah that video
I mean, well, let's let's just do what we usually do. Uh, let's go from the left wolf
What's your take on his video subjectivity as implied? It made me want to kill myself
well
That's a fair take it's
confused
it's
He doesn't I don't think even he knows what he's on about anymore
I reckon if he was to remake the video it would be completely different again because it's just he's he's so unfocused on the actual idea
I'm not fully convinced he even knows what the problem people had with him was
Yeah
um rags
I think that's I think that was pretty much what I was going to say
I don't think he quite understands the issue that people have
Which is easy when your tactic is to kind of make up stuff that they're saying instead and then
talk down to them in a really condescending way and say that
Essentially that they don't understand and that's their fault and not my fault even the one i'm the one doing the talking and the communicating
Uh fringy
And
I like to have the conclusion. I'm just like you want my opinion. Just watch this entire refit podcast
We're just like yeah, the the too long didn't watch is uh
straw manned his audience
I would love to have a chat with him. I would be very happy to actually talk to him about it
That's what i'd say it would be nice and well
Anybody got to take on what damage it could deal to his channel because I I think he'll sail past this if he just stops
talking about it
If he doesn't double down again, he's fine
If he doubles down again
I think if he chooses to move on with analysis, I I bet you he's gonna have jabs in his videos from now on
So when he's say for example, he's just doing a mario game and he's like, uh, mario's jump takes three moons to be able to do here
That's objective by the way
You know stuff like that and you'll be like, all right joseph. All right
I can see it
Yeah, if he doubles down again, he's gonna go the way of downward thrust and pretty much immediately
relevancy
You probably want to stop
like for his own interest
Because if he does stop then people just let it go. But if a third video comes out that sucks
Then people are gonna start being like, okay, man, like just it's time to stop
Oh, no, cool
You know how when you look in the comments of a downward video you see a bunch of people
Like there's just memes of all the shit. Yeah continuously does
The same thing's gonna happen with joseph
Even the people who agree with joseph on this are gonna start to get embarrassed for him
They'll be like to just drop it. Just drop it
Like the there's loads of comments like that on his one right now. They're like you didn't need to make this video
This is like, you know
Isn't it?
um
But yeah
People are asking it's like yeah, of course joseph's welcome to come on to efap to discuss his ideas
I think it would be great. But it's never gonna happen because I insulted him and
besides at this point
If someone was to give him the insult counter from the fabs we've covered about
Like joseph they've insulted you between them like 30 times in in my defense. I haven't actually
Yeah, but you're on efap. I think we've all insulted him by proxy because we are associated with maula, right? Okay
They'll say, you know maula insulted him and fringy just stood there. He just stood there
All right, so it's my job
He stood by and watched us be so mean
You're just a bystander for me
You know that that video of those like two high schoolers one guy's like
Yeah, I saw a girl about to be raped and the other one was like, so what'd you do?
Nothing, and then he was like, no wait then time pauses
So he's like hey guys
Don't do what my friend does and do nothing doing nothing's part of the problem
And he walks away and his friend is still stuck in time
Uh, so before we leave I've I've not read any super chats for this entire stream
So i'm gonna have to get through them
So if any of you guys want to do anything be it go
You could even leave if you really want to because we'll probably wrap it up after this but
I'm gonna go through all of these in one fell swoop. Uh,
I planned on sleeping for six hours, but I guess i'll watch wolfs coming out as a centrist pass me the blue ryan milk beautiful
Uh stream to electric boogaloo. Yes, you can tell this is right at the beginning
Efap with the women
Oh shit, we had a female guest yet
We're not diverse. Oh, I didn't ask them all their identities. That's true fringy could be a girl
That's true
I could be anytime. I want two streams in a row you absolute mad lads thoughts on achievements of fairy race on tick tock
I have no idea that the fairies are on tick tock
What's tick tock what's tick tock it's like
it's like a new vision of uh
Fire what's the one where you do stuff on your phone like quick videos vine. It's like that but different
Yeah, all right
Come on mola. Just take joseph on a date under the moonlight and have a girl to girl talk this passive aggressive video
To stream is not fun. I mean i'd be up for that
He's just never gonna he doesn't want to come on. So
All I can do is I mean because this has been one of the most relevant videos to cover on efap in terms of how me
Wolfen and rags and was it by extension anybody else who agrees with us? Uh breaks down media
Or at least presents arguments. So like
If joseph doesn't want to come on then we're gonna use it to sort of bounce off ideas. Anyway
Uh, it should be
About 10 minutes 30 minutes later. We were a little late. I'll agree. Is it too much efapping makes you go blind?
Yes, yes, so be careful folks so we limit it to only two a day
Rags, where are your new videos? It's been so long. They're in the works. They're in the works
Right now things are back in works
You'll be pleased with what you see probably probably
uh opinions are courses and opinions are coarse and rough and they get everywhere that's uh
Undeniably true
Uh, hideo kojima just announced spooky game four
Is uh, okay, excuse me
I'm not sure how to take that one joseph anison second efap wolf's back. Hell. Yeah, I know right. It's a the party today
Uh, what a lovely evening especially listening to efap playing monster hunter willed on pc and drinking a soothing mug of nutritious rhino milk
That's just everywhere
It's beautiful, um
Yeah, thanks. Uh, neil drugman just announced massive faggotry too. It's the same guy you
I don't get the memes. Uh, joseph anison writes shitty check out line tier novels
How's that for a subjective opinion joey? That was before you'd read anything wolf
Yeah, that was a couple hours before
Is that wolf's voice? Holy shit, welcome back and hello to you mauler and everyone else
Hello
Uh, no, this is the voice of quinton
I mean
Quinton impression you have to be like I fucking hate trump
Unless you got to start with trump
Damn it mauler. I wanted to make a video about this now
The efap is going to do a better more thorough job than I subjectivity is never implied. Um,
We never really talked about that what is it for something to be implied it's like
It comes with it setting probably that maybe the setting like the social setting just walked out of a bee then sure
like wouldn't you
Can something be definitively implied or would it be no, I don't think so. I think it's case by case
Because like if if I tell you
You know, I threw up my apple. You could be like it's implied that he ate the apple
But it could have been shoved down my throat, you know
You know, do you know what I mean? Like it's complicated strange example. I know through up my apple
It's implied that gravity is still in effect
Oh because I haven't floated off somewhere yet. Oh, that's that's very subjective
Yeah, it's it's just contextual i'd say
Uh, the trinity is back together. It's good to have you back wolf. Just wasn't the same without you. Welcome back
He's even a heart on it
Oh
I missed the first hour of this efap sadly and even as someone who usually likes joseph's videos the stream is wonderful
Keep at it fellas
Yeah, I mean disclaimer time don't attack joseph. He's a nice nice man. He's much more
How do I put this non offensively?
Compared to the other people we've covered I do feel joseph is far more effective at his purpose being that he does more
Research he tends to try
And do a better job. It's just that sometimes
He makes shitty videos like the horror one and the subjective one and it seems to be a result of him being
Just high off his own ego to the point where you can't even tell
But telling people they don't understand basic communication is not condescending like
Ridiculous, but yeah, he's he's still not awful or anything and you know
Be nice to him. If anything go on his video and say there's a there's a wonderful efapping afoot
You know like the
That might really confuse him
Uh, if only you know the power of opinions I get that one
Did you hear the tragedy of darth opinion the condescending?
It's not a story most youtubers would tell you revenge of the goshed milk and the women
Okay, so if a comedy scares me is it now a horror
according to joseph
Because genre is subjective that actually might be something he agrees with but I can't say
It's apparently genre is results based rather than intent based. Yes, which is not something
I don't think any of us five agree with at all. I don't think i'd subscribe to that
Which is better ghost ice cream or rhino ice that's supposed to be milk. Definitely. That looks like ice cream though
So ghost milk or rhino milk guys. Let's get the definitive answer here
There actually was a bunch of people posting uh
Ghost ice cream and rhino ice cream wouldn't ghost milk be in corporeal
Yeah, but if rhino milk is bad enough, then you would prefer the ghost one because it is in corporeal in it
So it's not as hard to drink. Okay. I imagine the ghost one would be colder. So i'd probably go with that one
That's good enough. I think I think ghost milk might be the preference actually
Yeah, it seems about right. America is not a country. It's never been there. You need to put in my opinion at the end of that
Sir jeez wolf is back. Did efap get his name from every frame of painting also watch scott dekerson
Derrickson on shawn carroll's podcast
Ghost milk is wet. Um, it did come from a combination of every frame of painting the fact that we do pause
Constantly and the abbreviation just being perfect. That's why we ended up going with it. Well in Venice
It was the top voted as well
because the other one was uh video response theory, which
Was close considering what happened just right?
But I think that name would have waned after a certain amount of time
Because the meme would be more and more confusing as time goes on because people were like, well, why do you call it that?
But efap, you know that just works on its own
Um joseph anison 2020 make opinions great again, of course, joseph can't handle the truth. Joseph's apparently an author
So could that tell so
So be that could tell you if he's bad or not
Well, I think we are
What is this stream about can I get a quick rundown
Well, I guess if you're still here, that was 220 that was like an hour and a half ago
Um, it was essentially an analysis. Anderson was doing a dumb thing and we talked about it. Yeah
His newest video we've done at analysis if you will or uh, I guess you could call it a
Reaction of a bunch of guys just chilling
Speaking of jojo, I think you guys would like the anime jojo bizar's adventure
Bizarre adventure the animation is a bit crazy. The writing is tight also hunter x hunter we get I don't know if i'd describe
The writing is tight
As someone who's watched it
Uh, there's nothing objective about art though. So
Oh my bad. Sorry. Yeah
Yeah, but yeah, we get we get a lot of anime recommendations if we just see them all
We can then satisfy everybody right? Yeah, I made it. I watched a bunch of anime over my break because people kept like
Uh telling me you got to watch berserk. You got to watch this you got to watch that
So half my break was absorbed with anime and how so
Oh, yes
Uh, I feel like to some degree a lot of what joseph does is try to show how much of a big brave boy
He is by not being scared of horror games
Uh, if you remember we did read it out on the the efap, but he did say that
Uh his assumption
When he first got criticism of his video was that everyone's embarrassed that they got scared where he didn't which was just
Again, how is that? Not good, you know, that's going on the list actually
You've got to be willing to meet the game halfway
And like yes, let it at least let it try and do its thing instead of going. I'm a big boy
Instead of saying it's literally impossible for you to be scary because of
Respawn, so i'm never going to do this as a horror game
It's like
Come on, man
Uh glad I was told what to believe by jesus anderson. Yeah, it's beautiful. It's beautiful process. Uh,
Is this brekkyd's new book situation?
That's a deep name, uh
I've been writing fantasy novels, but I think i'll hang up my hat now. I just can't compare it to the majesty that is subjective
Of course, uh, hey wolf. Can you do a reading of my jordan jordan peterson erotic fan fiction?
Okay, i'll i'll work on my kermit the frog voice and i'll get back to you
Uh, wow, the efap started before work and it's still going. Oh, yeah, I mean we've we started the first order
I don't even want to think about that
I need to eat
Hey wolf is water wet or does it simply come into contact with other physical objects to make them wet?
Oh dear, okay. Well, um, this is like the uh traps gay question
Well, uh, you know
I guess eric was right. I am a centrist i'm gonna say that water is moist
You can see water is both wet and dry. I have a definition to look at moist
It's lightly wet but yes, we we are through that's that's everything. Um,
It's not as many super chances. I expected
Well, I guess this is also the second stream
Yeah, I mean fucking hell
We've done a lot today. So for anybody who's actually like watching both of these, um, you can go to sleep now
You can get back to your lives
Um, and yeah as for like the next efap unless this is like emergency stuff where a video comes out
We're just desperate to reply to like we'll probably take a little bit of a break considering that was
three efaps in the course of
six days
Five days. So, you know, it's such a thing as too many evapings, right guys. That's a thing
Yeah guys, you got it. Yeah. I mean gotta gotta respect the refractory period man
But do you do do you guys I don't know if there's anything you get any of you want to say
No, I I just need to I need to eat we got we got content on the way
Uh, yes wolf will obviously be on efaps from now on I think is that right?
Yeah, yeah neat and obviously, uh, thanks for being a guest on as usual fringy. Um, if you want
Yeah, obviously, I almost forgot if you want to promote your uh, your channel if you want working on stuff
But I got nothing to say at the minute
So it's so useful when I can do that. It's like check out this channel. It'll be like i'm not doing anything on it
We'll just check out the
Um, yeah, follow me on twitter man for the for the loll
There you go
Hard to ghost rhino milk
Thank you emergency guest theo for your comment and your contribution contributions to the stream. It's appreciated
Thank you very much for having me
You were like it was like seeing just right in the chat only this was more pleasant
Yeah, because it me and wolf are like the we caught with the cookie and had the cookie jar with just right we were like, oh, hey
Um, but yeah, uh, that's it and thank you all for watching and for the generous donations, we will see you next time
For whatever we've got planned who knows? Um, bye. Bye
Bye friends
You
