Which looks you know that everyone at the table said an idea and they all agreed. All right. Well, all right guys
Everyone's idea can be in doom eternal and
It's just a bloated slog of a game I think I still like it I but the fact that I've been
It says a lot because I beat doom 2016 very quickly. Yeah, I was like a two setting game where I beat doom
2016 I was all over that but this game
It's just I gotta I'm gonna have to like push myself to finish doom eternal. Mm-hmm
I think I will as well, which is a shame
Because compared to compared to ari and the will of the wisps, which I beat pretty promptly
Like I beat that in a couple days. I
Just want to play like almost anything else
I'm going back to old games that have been updated and playing them more beat that in a couple days
I
Will like which ones
Mort how all say they changed YouTube's layout dammit
God damn it
YouTube's layout has changed for me. I had it
It has yeah, it's this big blocky bulgy looking piece of shit. It's so
Send it pixel didn't happen
All right. Well, I
Think through the the style change that happened like a year or two ago. No, no, no, this is this is definitely new
Let me show you
So I just was
Hold on. I just clicked on your channel more so that I could see
the
Like, you know the stream and well, I was actually gonna say I don't know if you guys know this but pretty much all streamers
That I know recently they're not sending out notifications for streams just at all
really, so and so not only do view counts like suffering, but they also deteriorate really quickly because
There's a point where people just don't even know you're doing it anymore
And I figure that it's probably smart for you to put out on Twitter and stuff
But I mean people could see it on moolah eventually. Anyway, it's all good
I'm sorry everybody YouTube's being a dick
What it looks like on my end pretty much sums up their attitude didn't look like that before yeah
That looks different doesn't it looks normal to me normal to me I think that's not
um
Okay. All right
It looks different
I just
It looks
What specifically is different all of the icons are a lot bigger and that it's got that sort of that kind of Southern, California
You know design sensibility where it's all rounded and everything's like soft and flat
There's no sharp edges anywhere. I think there's a lot of I think it's more sharp edges everywhere. Oh
Yeah, there's more sharp edges on the arm on the like subscribe
Bell there and on the on the buttons but between the thumbnails and you've joined subscribed
Buttons it looks the same to me. I
Okay, I'm not sure I just popped it on and then everything I was gonna say I just checked mine does look exactly like that
And I don't seem new to me. So maybe you just took ages to get some kind of update
That oh, yeah, because I like to hold off on update. I hate these
YouTube is always making you two worse with their keep asking. Hey, you want to switch nah, please
Please God, no
No, it's better we promise it's got new features like what like not getting any more notifications anymore
But it's annoying notifications. All right, you hate those
Nope. Oh, well, thank God. See, you know, I
There's some confident
Some might suggest that that is the removal of a feature. But yeah
How come there's that little
tittle thing on your you
Was that mauler on mauler it's got that line on the you what's that that was something from the artist I just don't mind it
Kind of looks kind of looks like it has some papers, you know, and they fall cooler. Well, that is the question
It's definitely different all on my life
Make sure your words are still right on your banner there
Do you do you know about this Chad do you know about anything to do with a banner and the weird intellectual recently?
Someone we covered referred to themselves in their own banner an intellectual point of view for movies or something like that
That's how they consider their own work and they spell intellectual wrong
A lot of people were like, did you get it? It's a joke. He he ended up changing it. What's people point?
That's the type of mistake I reckon I could make
Groups I'm spelling all the time it surprises me it would have gone for so long cuz like it's his banner
You think a fan into it in the video?
Yeah, he's advertising channel. He zooms into it. So you and no one
No one had ever pointed it out to him and said hey use you spelled intellectual
When I make a mistake in one of the titles of my video
Those are the first comments that come up and I'm like, oh crap change it change it
Yeah
So anyway, it's a lucky table
I want to and so so the April Fool's videos went out
I'm the reason I bring this up is that the the just right parody is it's doing pretty well in terms of like
making my audience laugh and
It was posted on a subreddit that hates people who hates the new Star Wars and they were commenting on how it's pretty good
The pretty pretty decent video and then when when made aware of it being my video
These are some of the amusing comments. I'm gonna want to show you lads that uh that they made
Yeah, feel free to this is from the what the Star Wars subreddit
It's a subreddit that just fucking hates people who are
Brainless when it comes to hating on sequel trilogy, you like me like all four of us. They would hate all four of us
Yeah, all right
Gosh, some of these are let's see
The worst part is if he leaned further into the hyperbole
I feel like this could be a fun parody of overly pretentious video essayists
But instead he's using just right and actually good channel as a basis even quoting some of his videos
And it just muddies any point he's trying to make other than subjective film analysis bad
There's gonna be a lot of
Self-reflection in these comments. I'm gonna be guessing
Wait a minute is that just rights thumbnail no wonder that it's better than the rest of his videos
He is mocking copying an actually good youtuber remind me again of this guy of I guess why this guy has nearly
300,000 subs
So by him saying better is that him saying that it was a good video. Yeah, you say well
Whether or not it's a good video. It's superior to every other video I've made which I
Mean I appreciate that
I'm glad they appreciate the Dexter Jetster did have an important role in the rise of Skywalker. I think that it needed to be highlighted
They must agree with the sexual tension between
It all depends on what kind of lens you look at it
You know, they're using these very phallic weapons that extend whether in each other's presence. What can I say?
They they say someone is like remind me again of why this guy is nearly 300,000 subs and
The next guy says because he panders to quote-unquote intellectual should be intellect util
like it's all
Fans who want to seem like the smartest in any conversation rather than actually have a discussion because we don't have discussions. No
Nope, so he makes videos that are effectively just endless gatekeeping about how his opinion is right and everyone else's is wrong
Well, here's the thing you can't random commenter
You think that all of your opinions are right and everyone else's is wrong
That's why that's why you hold
You're all wrong I hold plenty of opinions that I do wrong
That's a tea of thinking your opinions are correct
This in real life is a hugest thing all your opinions are right
That's one of the prerequisites for holding them
If you acknowledge that one of your wrong and you still hold it then you're just retarded. I don't know it's say
Well, I'm trying to think of an example of what that would even be like
Yeah, I think blah blah blah, but I also think that that's a
Okay, what about what about when you're in an argument someone and you prove the logic and facts and then they still hold on
To their view even though they've been proven wrong if I feel like at least somewhere deep down
No, they're wrong because they're
Not willing to acknowledge it
What's yeah what they acknowledge is different than what they actually feel and maybe I believe and maybe they don't know it yet
I guess
But yeah, the fact that this is something that you see regularly it there's no it's so
it's just
Like this thing that we all do it's wrong for you
Even though of course if you press this person on it, there's no way you'd get him to say
Oh, just cuz I have this opinion doesn't mean it's right that I think it's right. Oh, I don't what a strange freak you are
It's interesting. This is very topical to what's going on in my channel and the controversy
I've been broiled in with this debate of archery historical archery. I'm doing
Proven pretty categorical that certain things are the certain way with evidence and logic and so many just elitist
brainlets are like
So cars they're like, oh my god, so the archery community is so aggressive I
Think we need to realize it's just people it's not about politics or Star Wars or archery. It's people
Exactly that that when they don't want to believe something even when they're proven wrong
They'll still fight tooth and nail with the most disingenuous bull crap to try and somehow
justify their beliefs
Yes, this commenter carries on his videos are a quick shorthand for the worst kind of fans
There's kinds of fans. Oh, by the way, before we go on. He says effectively just endless gatekeeping
Good. I want fandoms to be gate kept it depends on how they if you define gatekeeping as being like
Eroniously keeping people out then no
But if you define it as literally just being a keeper of a gate to whether or not something is classified the way it is
Like well, yeah, yeah, I think that when it comes to pretty much any hobby or fandom, they're not for everybody
It's not a place that everyone should be. Well, yeah, I'm the whole like enter into it and change it
well, hang on that well, I think that's an important distinction because
You know trying to deny people enjoyment of something or you know gatekeeping. I generally don't like anything as a rule
Yeah
But like in terms of keeping something as it should be like Star Wars
I could not you're like respecting cannon and stuff all on board with you there. I'm on board
Yeah, I guess
I don't know if this is a crazy person is just like all they don't want
Mexicans to be in the Star Wars fandom or something weird shit like that because this is reddit
So who knows what the hell this person's thinking? Mmm, but yeah gatekeeping actually kind of a good thing
So there you go when when used in a Pacific
Yeah, because like, you know, I simultaneously hold the position of like I would never tell someone they're not a fan of something
However, if you go like man, it was crazy. There was no lightsaber clash in TLJ and someone goes what's up? What's a lightsaber?
I'll be like you're your final stars
My sweet old grandmother started playing
doom and
She thought it was she said it was too violent for me. They need to take out the violence
You know, that would be one of those things like all right. We need to get
Come in here and try to change all the things you don't like about something so that now it appeals to you
That's the Simpsons episode of Maja tries to sanitize itchy and scratchy
They wrote their opening is love and share and love and love and share
Just completely different. It was a poochie thing as well. I think it should be worth pointing out
The general use of gatekeeping is more of a term of
elitism I think where yeah, like no it must be this way in terms of practice because that's what I've been running in with the
Archery bullcrap. I'm having fun with at the moment is the gatekeeping. That's happening there that
Sorry, even to a degree. I agree with that. Yeah
It's just funny. Well, we're discussing the concept of gatekeeping in a comment that says that we gatekeep the discussion from not happening
With failing his comment is so hard right now
Anyway, he goes on his videos are a quick shorthand for the worst kinds of fans the ones who want to end discussion before it
Even begins
Hmm. Okay
When dared to confront a different opinion
They could just point to one of Mahler's videos or list off the plot holes that aren't actually plot holes from those videos and instantly
Own anyone who would dare like an objectively bad movie. No, we love some objectively bad movies
Yeah, we always say it's fine. I like it. Just it's when people claim that it's like really well written
You're like, uh, oh, no, I like the Mandalorian and the subject
But also like what plot holes aren't plot holes. He just well, yeah, I was gonna say that that makes me wrong
Yeah, all the plot holes are pointing out. I think I'm pretty objectively plot holes
You know, like well, I'm totally on board with the idea that I thought it was like
Oh, which was I fucked up and then they say the whole like you say that it's ridiculous to plow a star destroyer through the floor
In terms of damage, but they're immune to that you didn't realize that that's not a plot hole or something like that
and I'd be like, oh
That's that's a really good defense that you've inferred out of nothing
Yeah, and I want to know what this person's justification is for telling us that we're wrong like they think their opinion is right
Yeah
That's kind of this person's just trying to try to use the word objective to silence our feelings
That's what they're doing and to shut shut down discussion. Yeah, right. I'm offended. I am offended. I will say that
Let's see next comment
So is he just being a dick or did he manage to make an actually enjoyable video by accident?
It gives me infinite pleasure to know that a trust defender would have liked my video like they'd be like this is good
I like this
Next comment. How does Mahler do something less pretentious and hateful than the movie circle jerkoffs?
Even when he's clearly making shit up
Their reply is I like how he has to start
Making up themes for the movie because he knows if he talks about the actual themes his fans will
realize
Realize they exist. Um, oh no, we know there's a theme in the rises
Hide the comment. No the chat will see they'll know they can't find out these themes. No, no, I look away
It doesn't have a theme
But having a theme don't make it good
I'm just picturing chat with like big cartoon eyes looking at this comment. Like oh my god, they're themes
my choice
Well, absolutely. Well, I think we mentioned this before we got started but uh identity
I think it is present in the sequel trilogy. It's about Ray trying to identify exactly who she is through
Multiple sources. They've just executed horribly
Yeah, cuz because the overall message was always going to be it's not about where you come from
It's about who you are
Well something like you know the choices you make but they found like three different ways of saying it and then by the time they
Finished saying it. They're like, so what is she?
And the credits roll and we're like, oh
Cuz that's contradicted by the end. Where's like Ray Ray Skywalker's like. Oh
Is and then just trying to be someone else like execution
Was the thing the the first one was like your parents aren't gonna do it for you go find your identity for yourself
Cool second one. So your attempt to find your identity
I guess failed because you went for you were still waiting on a bloodline
The the end lesson is it's not about them. It's about you
It's like I was kind of the same as the first movie, but okay third movie. It's Palpatine. No, it's not really
It's whoever you want. Oh
We spent so time so much time judging what her family might or might not be that we never got to know it
Or a
So, this is
This is um, another very interesting thread. I was gonna I was gonna show on you folks
I find it extremely amusing, but uh, you want to give it a read? Mr. Ragu?
Yeah, let's give it a look see
Basically it just proves that mauler is too stupid to understand that his opinion is not fact just because he feels like it is
Interesting
Yeah, I just like because you can state facts and say you agree with them
Which then you're sharing an opinion about a fact. Yeah, you can have opinions that are facts
Yeah, I see saying that this is impossible like too stupid to understand his opinion is not facts
Well one I don't think mauler ever said that all his opinions are facts
So that's a straw man, but some of them's opinions are I would say
How do you?
My favorite color is blue that's not saying like objectively blue is the best color
Yeah, but it is a fact that your favorite color is yes. Oh my god
So, let's see next person says I think mauler is genuinely mentally ill
Well in all honesty rip a Rudy I
Kind of believe that about all of this a little bit. Yeah
It's fine
But that next comment though
All right, this one should be doozy
I've seen people sincerely speculate that he's somewhere on the autism spectrum
Perhaps it's Asperger's
It would help explain his obsessive tendencies how incredibly literally he takes things
Then his struggles with social norms
Like he was confused over Joseph Anderson someone
He doesn't personally know being offended that mauler called him a massive wagon. It's not that's not the point
I totally understand anyone being offended by anything. That's the nature of humanity
I'm saying why the hell can't you get over it especially when he laughs at jokes that are specifically designed within that let's say
Tia
He's pissed at me because I said something that he was told by a fan and I was like
Can we just like do you not ignore it? It was supposed to it was in my script because it was funny
He was like no
Okay
And I you know rags and I we get all kinds of shit thrown at us all the time
We're still just like yeah, I mean well anyway, I mean if you can
At the very least I think he has a narcissistic personality disorder
I mean just look at the summary from Wikipedia
NPD narcissistic personality disorder is a personality disorder characterized by a long-term pattern of
exaggerated feelings of self-importance an
Excessive need for admiration and a lack of empathy towards other people. That's me people within yeah, it's you Tootie
Yeah, people with NPD often spend much time thinking about achieving power and success or on their appearance
Typically, they also take advantage of the people around them
Such narcissistic behavior typically begins by early adulthood and occurs across a broad range of situations
I'm gonna break that one down. Let's let's apply it individually. Sorry
Long-term pattern of exaggerated feelings of self-importance
Alright, is there a long-term pattern? Are you do you think you're more important than other people are?
Exaggerated feelings of self. Yeah. Oh, that's true. Cuz I think I'm I'm pretty important especially to me
To be honest like I've never heard more or less say that his opinions are more important than other people
Joseph Anderson said what was the quote that his Fallout 3 video is viewed more on the daily than someone will be listened to in their
entire lives
I
Think the fact that you you bring other people on to hear their views and engage in a discussion
Contradicts that point quite strongly because if you had it, you know as an exaggerated feeling of your own self-importance
It would you want to make it all about you?
Not bring on guests or debate people. Well, I mean you just say long term. I am long man. That kind of lines up
These people don't watch a fat they don't they don't watch the things that they're criticizing
They just heard it from somebody else in some vague way and then they've shaped it in their mind to be something
They want it to be
An excessive need for admiration now, I think everyone generally likes to be admired. That's not a negative thing
I mean, but an excessive need
Yeah, I could excessive needs
Like how would you how would you be able to notice that?
Sorry, just a quick question. Well, does your contents cause people?
Like like this in this reddit post to admire you. Oh, I get all kinds of admiration all the time
I don't highlight like a shit ton of just the sludge that gets poured onto my reputation regularly
Yeah, cuz you would think if you were after admiration and you had an excessive need
You wouldn't pick an area or body of work that would so controversial that causes such well
Yeah, this is the thing if I wanted to achieve
Maximum admiration. I would just do what just rights doing and hope nobody points out all the flaws
I was actually talking to Alex about this with the response that I got through that parody video
I'm like I really could have done what Joseph Anderson did and if I said everything is subjective in terms of like judging any
Kind of quality than anyone who criticizes me. I can be like that's your opinion and that's fine. Thank you for watching
I appreciate it
And I hope we could be friends like the most diplomatic and friendly and I probably get a way better set of admiration at that
point than what I get now, which is
I'm not saying it's thankless, but like there's a lot of people who really don't like what I do
So I think that point is
Thoroughly contradicted by reality
Like I would I guess I'd rather be admired than not I guess in most context, but maybe you could argue
Maybe you could argue. I'm an incompetent narcissist
I mean just on the matter of wanting admiration it can be yeah, I guess I don't think there's anything wrong
But going to try and get people's admirations in a negative way by like pandering to them and not standing up to yourself
And just trying to please everyone. That's
So Mueller has a lack of empathy towards other people I
Guess the proof of that would be that I throw insults be like damn nailed it
Oh, but I just counter with you know, you were you were showing support and stuff when I was going into my surgery
I've had first-hand experience of maula cable of being empathetic. So it's actually not a complete robot. I just damn my veneer is cracking
Let's see people with MPD often spend much time thinking about achieving power and success or on their appearance I
Feel like I could be doing a hell of a lot more if they were my only goals
Like
First of all covering a lot more videos a lot more things a lot more faster. Yeah, like
Power and sick power what would be power on YouTube exactly?
Well, I would actually say doing things that are more in line with growing an audience and getting views and you know
Long man bad that that's like that style of content. You're generally more inclined towards isn't necessarily
Necessarily it works in some niches. Absolutely. But more broadly it's a bit harder for you know
And so I don't think that would be the best not to mention a raid shadow legend still hasn't popped up on my channel or
Efap, so you'd think it would have by now if I was aiming to at least by the definition of success being money
Well, yeah, wait I say that it popped up on the good elf obviously
Shade or a jet regins of lado the better game you guys should all play it
Do you care about your appearance maula? I mean, I've never seen your face once I mean, it's not hard to find
I just don't I just don't think that it's better than having icons or in my videos
I always think I should just have visual references instead of a vlog, you know, I mean I I don't use my
Face and stuff on YouTube, but I keep up my appearance because people see me
Like I don't want to look like a slob like have those people who?
Like on YouTube so many people get in front of their web
So I'm like, I I don't know I just feel like everyone should take care of their appearance it's a good
Yeah, like if this was actually being said about shad right now, I'd be like, well, I mean he looks good on camera
That doesn't mean that he's obsessed with his appearance
Weird and I shave and bathe and all that
Wow, you docis
Like seriously, I do the bare minimum really bare minimum when it comes to my yeah, but some people don't even do that
Yeah, those rags point
So many people and and I know it was a goal
they just make fun of people's appearances, but I'm like imagine if you were gonna show up to some just public event and
Your shirt was all dirty and ratty looking and it didn't fit you and your face wasn't shaved
and it was all scraggly looking and unkempt and your hair was greasy and unclean and
You clearly hadn't washed your face in a few weeks
Like come on like they
Typically they also take advantage of the people around them
So you don't pay me more I'm just saying damn it smaller take advantage of
There you go. You just said it shared. I'm not paying him for his appearances. Yeah, I feel I feel robbed
Like I get a like
I've been, you know violated
Unoffended oh deeply
But I I guess the nail in the coffin will be uh, we'll have to ask mauler if this
Narcissistic behavior began in his early childhood early adulthood
uh
When when did you when did you?
Realize that you had potentially Asperger's I'd um
As soon as I first my I made my first long man, which was you know, that was early adulthood
Well, so now that we've proved it, he basically ticks all the boxes
Okay
Especially with how he gets quite upset if people he criticizes don't come on his streams or acknowledge him
Oh, yeah, we get really bad at that. We definitely don't just
Hauler goes on these massive emotional tirades for people not coming on his stream. It's shocking
I don't care the only one that can make an argument for is joseph anderson and that's just because I thought we could have a
Really productive conversation and he had no reason he said he would if not for him to call him a massive faggot
I was like are you serious like?
And so they take that as wow you're desperate to get people on your podcast aren't you it's like
I I mean I could take it or leave it but I just
Okay, fine. Yeah, I think he's got plenty of people on his podcast who are okay
Also, there's a laundry list of people who would refuse to come on here that we'd be okay with like
We've always been okay with quinton reviews coming on sometime. I seriously doubt ever he would come on
It's not us who say they can't it's they're the ones who well they win win, right?
It's like either we would prevent them from coming on because we're afraid or that we want the bar because we're desperate
To take advantage slash to have attention, I guess
Let's see
Especially with how he gets quite upset if people he criticizes don't come on his streams or acknowledge him
And how he goes to great lengths to hide his actual appearance since he got a bigger audio. What the fuck does that even mean?
Why that's so close
Wait, I I thought I thought he had a narcissistic personality disorder
So if that's the case then why would he go to great lengths to hide his actual appearance appearance since he got a bigger audio?
Also, what does that have to matter with anything?
Like the only way unless maula actually looks like you know
Some disfigured and mutated mess and then he's going to great lengths to hide because it's so narcissistic
Yeah, elephant man pretty much but like even if I did uh, basically look like a puddle of flesh
It's like I still think people would like enjoy my content that already did, you know, they'd be like, well, he's a puddle of flesh
but still
If I look like jama the I think people will be still on board because of the whole star wars theme
You know, they'd be like, oh that's cool. Java's making youtube videos
And I think a lot of people and by the way
There's no way that they would say this about anybody else on youtube that they like going to great lengths to hide his actual appearance
Since he got bigger. I was like, okay, this is why this doesn't matter
And I think a lot of non youtubers don't understand how how many advantages come from using either
an avatar or no
representation of yourself in any way
Having none of that and not having yourself
Not having your you know sitting in front of a webcam and doing stuff
There's a lot of advantages when it comes to like editing and stuff, especially
How'd that come with that?
Yeah, that was that last sentence though. I find that not to mention
His willingness to associate with downright nasty people like rags
Sargon the geeks and gamers guy, etc. The geeks and gamers guy
I
Like how it's just out of the fucking realm of possibility that i'm friends with rags. It's like no rags
I need your audience. Gimme all right nasty
I don't think so at all
Personally gonna put it out there. I disagree that you're nasty. That's my hot take for the day. Well, that's just because you're a dog
Wait, i'm a narcissist therefore you're not nasty. Okay. All right, I need to figure this out on my whiteboard
We gotta be whiteboard, uh, I meant blackboard
A blackboard is actually worse because you have the blackboard which is perfect as is and you're using white chalk
To by the way over it if I was autistic, what are they trying to say?
You know
That's it. That sounds pretty ableist to me like it like where are you going with this like that mauler? What an autist?
Okay
That's some pretty ableist language there
Everyone's saying that I said something dirty and gross, but I don't know what it is
Right, all right. Um, no fascinating. Let's see. Yeah. Well, uh, so yeah, there you go
uh, we're bad horrible people and mauler's the
King of the right wing nazi and cells narcissist leftist and yeah, um
There you go
Yeah, I find it interesting just that last thing that it really does seem like people uh equate the capacity to be nasty
Meaning someone is their nasty person across the board because i'd be nasty to people who have rightly deserved it
Um, and I think everyone has well, I mean they're being pretty nasty to me in this thread
But they're they're exempt because i'm a badman
But you judge someone to be a nasty person broadly
By their broader actions and how they treat people broadly not the specific instances of when they are nasty for you know
Justified reasons at times and stuff. Um
Because yeah, like rags isn't nice enough got it. I don't like
Okay
You know I could uh
Well, I guess I would love none of these ever have examples
You have the one about you calling josef anderson a mass fabulous, but that's because he was acting like a massive faggot
No, it wasn't even it was a joke
And I had to explain it to him and he joke policed me. I said
I said the whole point of the funny is that it's absurd like you have this position on a game
And then I prove it wrong and then I attribute that you have that position because you're a massive fact that makes no sense
And I said it's the same level of saying you're a desk lamp and he was like
That uh, it's absurd to call someone a desk lamp though. Well, this is like this is this is mean. It's like oh
So it's a category it's just you've decided what is it isn't funny
Yeah, it is the exact same thing. It's absurd to call something
Somebody something that they're not like I I translated for him
I was like I called you a large gay
Like that if that's your specific definition of faggot as opposed to a large piece of food eaten in britain
Bundle of sticks. Yeah a large bundle of sticks. It's like what would that have to do with anything?
That's why it's funny, but well never mind. Oh, I still love that that word is in the hobbit and lord of the rings the original book
Those books must be disowned
The only other thing I think is
Worth checking out. I think everyone has seen this already, but it's just so funny. Uh, chad
Do you want to have the honor of uh reading this tweet out and and accepting what the tweet is?
Oh
Okay
You're giving me a bob one
Yes, I am
So first of all read the tweet that he is uh quoting and then read his tweet and then react to it
That is your that is your job for the day
All right
Somebody offers you three thousand five hundred to finish it to finish everything on this tray in 90 minutes
Could would you do it question mark?
Three thousand five hundred dollars
I give it a shot. I give it a good try. Hell. Yeah, I give it a shot. I mean paying me lots of money to eat
Tasty, but junk food still but still it can be tasty. I'm not a fan of macas
Hugely, but I mean if I for money like a lot of money, okay
Wait, does that include like the wrappers and stuff? No
I assume not either. I just I just it was someone someone who walks up to you with a deal like that
You got to make sure I I I probably couldn't but I I'd try give it a shot. Yeah
Okay. Okay. So this is bob's response
That's a fairly small
Oh my goodness
I guess point of reference, hey
Oh
That's a fairly small like that. He said for an average sized person. It's like bob. What do you think average?
This isn't even not even a moderate amount not even a lot. This is a fairly small amount for an average sized person
That is four different meals four burgers four drinks
okay
Uh, the main reason fast food cooks the fast food cooks so fast and lasts so short
Is that there isn't much?
density
I wouldn't want to eat a double helping of nuggets in that time frame, but I could easily
That humble braggler
It's like I don't want it's uh peculiar most
I will say
Isn't much density to us
What is he talking? Well, this is what it is. Like he's arguing that there's a lot of air in
McDonald's food or something
McDonald's food is nasty. It's very compact
And it's heavy. It sits heavy in your gut. Like you just have to eat it to know that
Well, this is really bad. Like I think that if I ate all the nuggets on that on that tray, I'd start to be like, whoa
That's quite a bit realize you have four double cheeseburgers two large fries and four sodas
The drink. I don't know how i'd be able to keep those drinks down. That's a lot of drinks
I'd be like there's like two physical space in my stomach
Yeah, yeah, the problem is that there's not enough capacity in my stomach and liver combined
Put all of this in there it's for this how is this
It's like it's for large meals
No, it's a small portion for one bit. It's a small amount for it's a small amount for one person
I can't believe it
You're like 17 feet tall so for this this is what I mean i'm a big guy and this is insane this is nuts
like I have like this
I can't fathom it. It's like 20 nuggets four burgers
One of them's a double big oh, yeah, it's even worse than that
I
Think the one on the right doesn't have a patty because that's just the people who work at mcdonald's
Unable to put what you ordered into the bag. I think they're all supposed to be probably doubles
Oh gosh, and you know, I bet people could say guys your fat shame is like
No, we're trying to look out for people's health. If you eat like that as a single meal, you'll get a diver heart attack
Yeah, i'm sorry
This is like
Yeah at this point like you're seriously putting your life in jeopardy you should be shamed for doing this to yourself
I don't really mind
I don't really mind like whether or not people do or do not, you know
Act in a certain way. I guess the concern here is it's like this is like that's a lot of food
I think that's a good point for you. Look if people want to eat themselves into yeah, you can do whatever you want
I can't tell you anything. They can't tell us that we have to accept it or not acknowledge the inherent health risks
That's associated with that
Well, I was going to say he's just categorically wrong the average size person will not consider this small
No, the average size person is incapable of shooting this much food. The menu doesn't consider this small
That's not how they describe this
This is the family meal times too
Yeah, so if I go to the mcdonald's nutrition calculator, I can find out how many wow
They have like they have a legit nutrition calculator here on the mcdonalds.com site. I can find out how many uh
Calories are in this so y'all discuss that and i'll get to work
Well, and you know, it's funny, right
I've gone through different phases of appetite and eating i've been a bit larger and now i'm on
I'm doing pretty well. I'm on a health streak at the moment and
and burning it off which is pretty good and and
and so there was like a time of life where it felt like it was a
Like you've achieved something to eat a large portion. I was like check this out
You know like you able to you know, chug it down and stuff. It's not a healthy attitude
At all, which i'll happily acknowledge
But um, I like uh, that's always good. He said I want to do the movie bob mcdonald's challenge. It's like that's what it turns into
Bob mcdonald's challenge
I would emphasize personally like you declare that your video is like can I eat this this is considered small?
Well, it's funny. I think when I was larger and had a
Larger appetite I might have managed it now
I can't my appetite's shrunk quite a lot because I might be able to do it if not for the drinks
I don't think I can put away that much. I don't think it's drinks
Like I I just I would not be able to do it at all now
Like a single burger a couple nuggets and chips would fill me up and then at least
That's a time limit too the 90 minutes you're like damn
I would literally throw up before I would you come close to finishing that yeah, even if I starve myself beforehand
Yeah, well
Preparation maybe yeah, but I consider myself. I mean i'm i'm still a bit above average, but even a bit above eric
Do it at a star tread taking the movie bob mcdonald's challenge
So let's do a let's do a large fry
Oh that stavos girl says she can do it. I want to see this now
The fries have more calories than the burger cheese
Really? Yeah the oil the double cheeseburger has 440 a large fry is 490
Whoa, I would not have thought that
I guess because I guess it's all salt and grease and potatoes screw the fries and I'll just get burgers
All right. So what else I did the fries I gotta do the nuggets next and then i'll be done
Sorry, I have to catalog this meal because it's so long
That stavos girl just said she will I'm saying she's gonna try this we expect this now
Yeah, you better see it. Let's challenge accepted
chicken and sandwiches, okay, so let's do a
Let's do the nuggets or p those look like they're what 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
Those are bigger than 10 pieces fucking hell
Those the next step up is a 20
Are they two 20s? Oh they could they could be
They could be 20s
Well, they're more than 10. They're more than 10. Yeah, it's 20. I have to be 20 because it's more than 10 in each one
Yeah, yeah
I think I count 13 on the surface
For the left
And that's not including any I can't see so it makes sense. It'll be 20
Yeah, that's the next step up that they even give me the option for so
Uh
Uh plus a
Plus that again
All right
This is a rough estimate and this is going by the mcdonald's calculator and you fucking know that they're gonna low ball this shit
If they can if they can um, this doesn't include the ketchup
This doesn't include you know, that sort of thing in case you needed more food with your food
uh
So the estimate that I am getting based on the mcdonald's official nutrition calculator
Is that this meal is five thousand one hundred and twenty calories
What's the standard daily recommended three thousand is your daily? Yes
That's a small meal
So this this is like two and a half days worth
And he thinks it's one third of your daily
And a small one at that
And it that just goes by sheer calories not the actual nutrition in yeah, because of course
We're not counting the fact that you're like 400 percent over your fat intake
You are massively over your sugar intake with all those drinks
Yeah, and you can't slap a piece of lettuce on those burgers and think that you're doing yourself
Yeah
Oh, so yeah 51 20 calories this fairly small amount for an average sized person
And
What does he mean
like
you know
I don't like to get too much into the you know
fighting between youtube and stuff, but this really does speak to
his self-awareness like
Because he's stating this unironically
It's the equivalent of four-year-old virgin where he's like a boob feels like a bag of sand. They're all like what?
Everyone everyone stops for a moment. Like what do you mean? That's a small amount of food?
What is your reference for food amounts?
And he reviews movies yeah level of awareness and
critical
That is um, that's rough um, I don't know what to say, um
Um
Oh, man
We've only got one thing left in our intro for the day, um
I think we've all heard about this article, but probably not many people have read it. So, uh,
Let's explore it shall we it's called our fascination with canon is killing the way we value stories
Saga made a video on this. I'm only halfway through it. Um
Well now we get to make a video on this
Oh, hello, here we go. I've seen using an ad blocker i've whitelisted
No, it's about a dine afire. Um, so let's see
Our fascination with canon is killing the way
Why is is capital?
So that's all right. You only write for living. It's all good our fascination with why is with capital
Hey, it's all right. You're right for living is killing the way we value stories. All right
Mm-hmm
As the pop culture we love becomes increasingly dominated by vast franchises of interconnected worlds and stories ask yourself why that is
Why is that that cancels this entire article like the second you think about why?
So does it become dominated by one singular question from die-hard fans
Is the thing we're about to consume canon to everything else we've consumed before
It's an attitude that's turning our love of stories into some bizarre archival competition
So
The just there's so many ways this is wrong
Um
a lot of what makes
A lot of what makes things meaningful in sequels is your knowledge of the things that came before
Like certain payoffs you'll be lost if you hadn't seen the ones like like I don't know
Why this person's concluded this like why do you think canon exists?
So that we have a basis for why things are happening later
I don't know what else it's just like oh you can't enjoy it unless it's canon
It's like are you trying to suggest for a moment that the rise of skywalker is a film that would survive if it was isolated
No, that film makes no sense on its own
But it does improve a little bit in isolation
Just with what it did with luke and stuff. I I guess I agree. Just uh, oof
I know like I wonder if that's the real goal of this article is to try and remove some portion of the criticisms
Because I get which is just stupid on the funny thing is uh, my mum saw the rise of skywalker and she's as you know
the hyper-lamid
Film viewer person right and she asked me she was like it was okay
Obviously she has she has no interest in stars whatsoever
Well, the first question she had though was how come how come the guy disappeared when he died?
But the girl didn't when she died
And I was just like
That's a good question mom the great question
That's a great question
Really I am the fruit of your wound
This is what we are talking about when even normie film watchers are picking up on these arrows like he really made a mistake
She didn't remember any of the characters names, which was funny
I mean even even this this last sentence is it's an attitude that's turning our love of stories into some bizarre archival competent archival competition
um, but
Does this person not understand that we?
Archive all this stuff and we keep paying attention to it because we love the stories
Those two things are interconnected
Like if we didn't give a shit about the stories to the point where we would want to know what happened before it
It's like saying that it's bizarre that a person who loves history would be a historian almost
Well to this person I would be like why did you purchase the rights to a story to make sequels to it?
It's like why didn't you just make a story? It's like well because we like the universe that was a part of and you're like, uh, huh
Why dot dot dot
Just like do you not you're not following that thought of rolling down the road see where it leads
The whole concept already that that has been proposed is just
antithetical to the idea of story I like
What is he uh, this the next six words?
Um, I could talk forever about how what a fascinating statement that is
Don't you want to read it out ranks?
Cannon is not inherently a bad
Well, I meant a bad thing sorry mistake but
Still it's not a bad. It's not a bad. I just like who
Why what why would you say that who where was what?
Whatever wasn't a bad thing. He's saying inherently a bad thing. I think but it's
It's like, you know, there are some people who think that I think there are some people especially the sequels have kind of brought that out of people
Where there are those who one they have to ignore cannon
In order to have these stories work on fundamental levels
But they would say that when it comes to we covered a guy who was uh talking about that
I forget which one it is because all these people kind of mushed together
Um, but they were saying stuff about how the things that came before it they constrain artistic vision
and uh stuff like that so I can absolutely believe that there are people out there who
Might think that cannon is a an unnecessary
Um, it has a stranglehold on the way that we tell stories because it's it's basically it sets up a rule
That has to be followed when you're making a story and they want stories to be free and open and yeah
Even though constraints have often landed well to creative often constraints and restrictions
Are really good because I give you a challenge best example is the hyperspace kamikaze
I'm sure they feel that the complaints about it being an impossibility because the previous space battles is ridiculous
Like you guys need to let go of your cannon. Okay, and i'd be like, okay, why uh,
Do you know like you can't have it both ways
You're taking things from the older films and using them to your benefit
And then sometimes you just blatantly ignore things from the older films. So we are we supposed to understand say for example
Who's kylo ren and they're like, what didn't you didn't you watch tfa and tlj and I go no, I don't care
So this film sucks because I have no idea where these characters even are
like oh
Damn, we we have been hoisted by our own petard
All the people in the real world who have looked back at history and said no, no, don't worry about what actually happened generally
Not good people
All right, those who want to rewrite history and just ignore it and act like it didn't happen and like
I just wonder if there's any consistent argument you can actually make that canon can be a bad thing
How can it be a bad thing?
How can it be anything but helpful because it's about well because the people who think that canon's a bad thing are people who put
The you know the the wibbly wobbly wishy washy aspect of the themes of
Storytelling on a meta level and the freedom it should have and the creative vision of this that and the other thing
Canon is a is in direct opposition to these people's creative vision because it constrains them
It gives them rules and guidelines from which they have to work from also history
That's what I mean. It's like the rules and restrictions are helpful
You know because you've arbitrarily chosen to make a story that takes place in a universe after buying the rights to it
So you can't just then say well to hell with all the other stuff that happened in this universe
We're just going to do our own thing
Um, I think there might be an interesting point here
if we're trying to figure out when is canon a bad thing and I think the best example is actually the sequel trilogy because
It's so garbage that anything that's based off of that canon into the future. I can't watch I actually put a
Put a to go about that that we've gotten so fucked now that um people consider the canon of tlj to be you know
Bismourged by tros and you're like, wait what like so confused
I think you can get to a point where you just have absolutely fucked yourself. Yeah, uh, where no matter what you do
It's going to contradict something
Which is where styles is that? No, I mean I would prefer that a series takes like all the bad things about the prequels
Own them and move forward with them. I mean I would you could do something you could try
Yeah, the prequels don't irreparably damage stalls as far as i'm concerned
Well, I think that's kind of the key if you have a solid canon that is that is self-contained consistent not contradicting yourself
That is nothing but a good thing. But if it's
horrible and it's working it and it sets up like
drastically
bad things in the setting and
Characters and events well, then I could see yeah canon might be working against it
But that's not what we're having so far
Well, like that's not what star wars with the state star wars is in before the sequel trilogy
And if they're gonna also reference like say marvel cinematic universe, that's not in that state really either
There's nothing that breaks everything there's some, you know dodgy things here and there but not nothing that breaks the whole universe
Compared to
This next sentence is really interesting it says
They say canon is not inherently a bad thing
Of course, it can provide structure to chaos and it can provide a sense of not of just of not just continuity
But stakes that uh as that continuity progresses
I have why do they say it can provide structure? That's literally what it does. That's what it is is structure. It's supposed to be
Like drinking water can be healthy for your body
It could also be unhealthy if you drink, you know, a
silos with
But even that's not a good example because you could drink too much water, but you can't have too much canon
Yeah, you can't have too much canon. I guess you could have
You could have conflicting canon. That's that's all we can really yes. Yeah, but that's not about amounts. That's about
Specific specifics. Yeah
But this would be like canon can provide structure to chaos
Of the world and like that's what it does. I mean like it does not just a can does do that
Like that's that's what it does
That's how it works. It's kind of what it is
Um as to having too much canon
I think there might be an example when that might be the case if the if the
Previous canon is so ridiculously large and the only way to enjoy the current stories is to understand everything in it
Well, the bar for entry to enjoy that new story is way too high before you can get into it
Um, I feel like that's a test of the writers though. Yeah
Yeah, I don't know if i'd say that's bad. That's just yeah
Also, that would become niche rather than bad as far as i'm concerned
Like it's uh, this is for the hardcore fans, you know
Someone new is like I have no idea what's going on. Then some hardcore fan is like this is actually amazing kind of like endgame
Would have been not not to say endgame is a great film
I'm not saying that i'm saying that um
There are a lot of mcu fans that are getting all these payoffs that the average viewer who just comes in for the first time
Is like I don't I don't know how many people are
If someone said too much canon in the mcu i'd be like no
You just haven't seen it
Just to throw uh something in the fire
I think endgame is a great movie
But for a different point of reference and we'll weave it there
You're gonna get you're gonna get you're gonna get pros and cons in the chat chat are gonna be like you're right and you're wrong
But um, it just like for everybody who doesn't know
Um, we're all having a very fun and engaging debate actually
It's a
Point of reference judgments on films and things like that. And so it's intertwined with all of that
But it's a whole nother day on topic. So
There you go. You got no shad and you are very right
Exactly. You see and my answer is it depends on the point of reference. You're judging it against
Okay, and i'll leave it there because I agree are judging against certain point of references without
Acknowledging others it can be a terrible movie
But acknowledging other kind of standards that it achieves it can be brilliant and it depends on which one is more
important
Or which one you find more important and that can be a subjective thing
But i'll leave it there also, I suppose I just saw one of the comments asking
I probably should have mentioned it because in terms of efap continuity the last time they heard from you you're going to get some
Surgery. So you want to update the uh, the old chat on how you are how everything went?
Well, happy to and thank you for your concern guys actually the support means a lot
So the first week of recovery was hellish like really rough
Like at point pain so bad that you can't maintain composure just a whale in agony, you know
But then I got onto the drugs that they gave me and whoa, they were dizzy. So
That that helped. Um, but I was reluctant to take him because one
It was a warning that they could be addictive and two they had a whole list of like, um
Symptoms that this court might cause vomiting diarrhea nauseousness and stuff and i agree that holy crap
And the work the last thing I wanted was to throw up with my throat
Japing wound right and have stomach acid just
Sravage oh
I was like, okay. I'm avoiding this but the pain got so bad that I was like
I I have no other choice and the first night it made me pretty nauseous
It didn't make me throw up though. Sorry. I risk it and then after that
It was like magic stuff and I can really see why they warn people like I can see like the weird thing about this one
right, um is that
Relaxing like for me what I need to do work to relax. I need to play a game
I need to do something to relax right this type of drug. It was like an instant relaxation pill
You took it and and then it not only reduced the pain
But it made you feel mellow and relaxed and I was like wow
I can really see why people could get addicted to this stuff
And so I got off it as soon as I could as soon as I could manage the pain without it
I was off it. Um
and uh, and then that was after the first week
And then the next week it was still pretty hard to talk
And and now i'm like almost fully recovered. I do have difficulty to talk sometimes, but it's not pain
It's like um
It's like a swelling or or like there's more you know
Less room in the throat that causes me to get a gag reflex when i'm talking too much and I can kind of feel it now
But i'm doing mostly okay. That's the only after eating a
5100 calorie mcdonalds
A movie pub challenge sort of thing
Um, but as to has it had any effect i'm seeing really positive signs
I still have some like yeah
I've had some rough nights now and then where I've had like a sleep apnea night where I don't breathe well
And then i'm wrecked the day after so that has happened some surgery
But there been much fewer and i've had days where i've been feeling like i've had energy i've been how to do stuff and that's been like
Uh, you know a godsend, you know, it's been pretty awesome to feel energy again
So that's kind of the update. Um so far so good. And so thank you for your concern guys. I appreciate it
Excellent
So that's how i was asking what drug i'm not gonna tell you I don't want people to get hooked on this
That's a super addictive drug, but I won't tell it's a
5,000 calorie mcdonalds. That's what it is. Yeah, just so I know specifically to avoid this drug
Yeah at all times. I want to know which one exactly it is and what dosages you took, isn't it?
It's walta white's math, isn't it? I knew it
The blue stuff man. All right, so australian crack it is
The idea lets characters bear the impact of events on their journeys across not just one narrative
But many allowing them to grow and change to the point that they might even be entirely different kinds of people compared to where we first met them
Yeah
Consumed eyes like yes, where are you going now?
There's still plenty of room for variety and interpretation and even a relatively strictly defined canon
Just look at star wars and the kinds of stories it can still tell
Despite the mandate from on high that anything told must fit into what's been established since disney took over the franchise
What do they mean upon high what does that mean but disney hasn't been following that mandate no they haven't that's the problem
I thought that's why this article existed was to argue why they don't have to
so
Despite the mandate from on high from upon high
That anything anything in italics anything told must fit into what's been established
Like yeah, I thought that was a given
The thing is you can fit into what's established even if you've never been referenced before
Like that seems to be something that they they think that we advocate for is like you can
I remember there's been people who've been like, oh you want it so there's never a new force power
And it's like it depends on what you do and how
You're really careful
Yeah, and I I still feel that you know keeping the force restricted to the core set would have been worked so much better
I think it would be better. Yeah, a lot better than this like let's let's go over the list force healing
Could have maybe worked but not like this. It's too late to make it work. Anyway, right too late
You fucked it up if they didn't if it was there the whole time then maybe but no
uh, we've got force
Fucking teleport actual objects across distances, which by the way fills in the plot hole for tlj
She forced teleported that knife away. That's what she did
It makes sense now. Fuck. I kind of feel like that one doesn't get enough attention. That's a huge deal
It really it really is I suppose like you could get away with the fact that it's between two incredibly force sensitive people
Generated by one of the most powerful force users in history
Is that is that the like the only way you could try and restrict it because if?
Average gennise could learn to train to do this
Gosh, I mean they could never have the plot of a new hope again where they have these plans that they need to get to
the rebel people as like
Well, just teleport
Yeah, teleport a grenade into the core of the death star
Um
But we already have this with force healing as they have it like if a baby can do it like this
If ray can do it like this in in the context that it's used
then like man
Obi-wan that that should be like the first thing you learn as a jedi
It's amazing how easily ray picked up on it as like and it's clearly a defensive power, right? It's not an offensive power at all
Yeah, you can't heal someone to death
And it doesn't say that the dark side were able to find it
It is like what that seems like a very good, you know light side power and old anakin spending his life to learn
When ray just pulls it out of it
Yeah, she just does it like on a whim. She's just like oh i'm well, do you remember?
Not po fin c3p. All totally fine with it. It's bbh. She has to explain it to bb8's the one who's like
Wait, what did you just do?
Bb8 the little robot thing is like this does not compute
This is a weird one, right
Like I would love it if all bb8's beeps and boobs were him saying you guys are retards
That shouldn't be how it why are you doing stop it?
It's like the electrocutes following you guys around is because you're invincible
But man
I think ob1 should have been able to hear he'll qui-gon, you know stuff like that
like stuff which would have and if qui-gon was alive that could have
Really changed the story of how anakin was trained and all this was not qui-gon might have been able to find out about
Palpatine early on because he was so switched on and capable and
Gosh, and yeah, it would have been like anakin turning to the dark side like I did to this little slave child on this planet
Anyway, of course is fucked yo
And I don't even necessarily have a problem with the long distance for skype calls
It's just the way that it was done was
Just like oh we need them to talk they can talk now
Well, that's why I kind of get out with like, you know, oh no new force powers
That's terrible
It's like you do realize we've got a lot to work with you can make a lot of incredibly new things out of things
We already know
for example
Darth Vader chokes a person and then Luke
Telekinetically grabs a lightsaber. You're like, are those two things? Is that a new thing? It's like well, no technically
That's just an extrapolation of the first thing
exactly
exactly
and force choke is just force push on your windpipe and
um
Maybe super speed is that you're super pulling yourself towards something also but pushing yourself away from someone you like whoa
Yeah
What you can do with just push and pull in just those two if those were all it was is just push and pull like
Man push and pull works really well because it's really easy to grasp
You know you put pushing and pulling it's just movement. It's basically telekinesis
But it's force grasp easy to grasp
Yeah, like it's it's easy to understand why choking somebody would work if you were able to move objects if you could move objects
You could probably crush objects that makes sense. But like force healing is a whole different thing
Yeah, I just want to say that the book Matilda has
more explanation as to her powers than the course does
Let's see memories of Matilda for some reason I remember it as being a fun kid movie
I remember being fucking shocked by the chokey. I was like, is this real thing? Like how could you get away with this?
This is a school with this torture chamber
What the heck?
I say bring it back bring back the chokey some kids need the torture closet
um, let's see, where are we uh
But those stories benefit from the added weight of being definitive interpretations and events that flesh out an entire galaxy's worth of stories
All right. Thanks for thanks for reading the article of this everybody
Guess that's that right? It's done
Yeah, those stories do benefit from that because it keeps consistency which makes the world more believable and realistic and
Hold it. It suspends our suspension of this belief
um
But we're canon or rather our hunger for it
Goes terribly wrong is when whether something matters or not becomes the base standard for how we consider a piece of media
Well, whether something matters or not
Becomes the base standard. I guess they're saying that it's bad when our concern for canon is what we put above everything else
Or it's it's the base standard for whether or not we think something is good or not
I would just argue nobody doesn't do that. And then they'd be like, what do you mean?
I'd be like any payoff that you experience is based on knowledge you had prior to that moment regardless
But they're not even defining whether something in canon matters or not
They're saying broadly whether something anything matters or not becomes the base standard of how we consider a piece of media
Isn't that how you consider media?
Universally whether something matters or not or is valid or not in the media itself regardless like what what are they trying to say?
Are they saying are they saying that the sequel trilogy?
For example, we all go non-canon because it breaks canon. We're not even going to
Consider it a piece of media now. Is that what they're saying is is a bad thing?
I don't know. It's a very confusing like if you break canon you're automatically out of being considered which is bad
And I would caution them to be like no
No, it's because we considered them that they became something we considered breaking canon not even non-canon
Yeah, and I mean I it's clear what they're trying to say that they're trying to say whether we are regarding something in canon matters
Or not becomes the main thing that we're judging the movie by
Uh, you know the base standard and we're not using it as the base standard
We're using it as a standard to judge its quality and it's an important standard
Um, but the movies generally still can be crap regardless of how well it is to canon as well. It's not the only thing
Let's see. It's an attitude that has become predominant not just within fandom circles itself
But in the media commentary that has developed around these fandoms and the blockbuster franchises that dominate our popular culture
So you don't even have to be a fan to recognize these things
Or at least talk about them. They do seem to have a prevalent sort of
like like they
They exist in a way that anyone could notice them like you don't have to necessarily
Be an expert in lore to recognize a contradiction
Yeah, it's kind of base level stuff in a lot of ways
Um, I think it's why a lot of people can talk about it despite not being fans. Oh, no, they've used the actually word
Oh, dear
Actually one of the most overused words ever you may as well just remove it
Most of the time you don't need it. Yeah
I use it a lot actually
It's it's good for accentuation
It's just funny because it usually implies upon the speaker that the gatekeeping for example actually interpret it interpreting. It's like oh
actually interpreting
So you're not really I get you you're not a real interpreter. You're a fake one. It's like, okay fine
Critics and fans alike are now less interested in actually interpreting a piece of media thematically
Are to engage with why they liked or disliked it
But instead to pick it apart and break it down to the base components of what are essentially it's pure unflinching facts
But hang on isn't
breaking it down
um
Engaging with why they liked or disliked it
Well, this is the funny part to me because they're like, oh you're not looking at the theme and i'm like
What if the theme like in tlj is destroyed by the unflinching facts?
As in this piece of media is giving me a lesson or a message of some kind
But it's not following its own lesson or message. It's actually fighting against it
It tells me that if I behave correctly and get punished for it. I should then behave incorrectly
That is the journey of po in that movie and it's like what an awful message
It's like but that's not the message tlj the messages that you learn from failure. It's like well that didn't happen
What do you mean?
But but you're not actually interpreting. Okay
Thematically because you're not having the correct conclusion maula. So it's invalid
Got me
It's really interesting. I mean
Everything I mean, I I think that breaking things down to the base components and then building up from there is what's fun about looking at media
I think that's what's interesting. Uh, I think that can give me better insight into even
To myself as to why I do or don't like things
Well, that's the whole point that literally is a way that a lot of people determine why they liked or disliked something
But they're literally saying in this article that that's not doing that. It's like what?
I mean, I would I like I would like to know the reason why I like things a lot of times
Um, they will help me get more of those things if I know what i'm actually what I like about something
Uh, let's see. Um, that's it at google star wars for the marvel movies
And you will likely see as many articles and videos with headlines like x confirms y is canon
x questions answered by new media
Or x things we learned about character z in this new book slash movie slash tv show
All right
We're going star wars now
I would just be like do you know do you know why this stuff like if they were like this isn't really what matters
I'd be like you do get the biggest payoff of the fucking star wars trilogy and the ot is fucked up by new canon
like
Anakin's redemption or at least partial redemption
However, you want to look at him saving his son and killing the evil villain. It's like he didn't really did he he tried
just saying
every video on the first page of um
The google, you know search for star wars under videos is either a trailer or and the last one is a special look
Behind the scenes. I think you're reading them wrong. They all say x confirms y as canon but must must
um, like one of the I remember one of these being the whole like who is uh,
The technical grandfather of anakin, right or father and they were like, oh, uh thingy confirms that it was you know
Plagueis or palpatine knowing that information will decide a lot about that last kiss in tros
You're like, ooh
so
This is interesting if I google star wars
The second thing that pops up for me
Is from not only this website i-09 gizmodo
But from the exact same author james whitbrook
It is an article called
Uh, he wrote today at 6 30 meet the almost excruciatingly wholesome jedi of star wars high republic
Huh interesting
Hmm
Like in a private browser or something with no search history. No, this is just a good this is chrome tab
And then the other ones are lightsabers of star wars the rise of skywalker
Uh looking back at star wars rise of skywalker strange lucrative
Uh disappointing box office something the forbs thing popped up
Um
Those are the three top stories, I don't know what else is there
um
The star wars fan animated colin trevor's rumored star wars script star wars fans. Yeah. Uh, oh wow. That's the top thing
Uh for there
Oh, you're in a lot of stories
Okay star wars is ray skywalker plan shows just how much went wrong from screen rant. That's interesting
X confirms why
Uh, andrew jack star wars actor dies from covet 19
Um, yeah, so that's a
Thing
All right, anyway, yeah can is important
um
So moving on uh, and before someone accuses me of throwing stones and glass houses
Yes, i-09 totally does this too. Like I said discussing canon can be fun. It can add a lot to a series
It is the series though
Like a series is its canon. That's what it is defined by the canon
What I mean this none of this makes any sense to me. I'm like, what are you?
The series is the events that took place in that universe
That's what it is. It can't be anything else
They are right though, uh, tlj does you know the seagulls really does improve without canon
Yeah
Um
But this craving for it above all else is a toxic attitude. It's toxic toxic attitude
Yeah straight from the brood
some type of brood
Uh, but this craving for it above all else is a toxic attitude
Not just to the way we talk about pieces of media from a critical perspective
But in fan circles as well
Well, I would say that not
Something is to be critical about canon because you're working with more objective criteria
You have to you rely less on I feel or I think and here's what the data is
I
Find it interesting that I don't even qualify
You know
How it causes a toxic attitude or why it's toxic when people are just saying let's let's follow what canon sets up
I mean obviously they're saying because people attack, you know movies and stuff that that must be toxic when
And I the criticism is valid. I wouldn't call it toxic like
You know in the actual use of the term where people like individuals can go about this in a toxic manner
But there's nothing toxic about it
at all
Uh, let's see
Critics
And fans alike are now less interested in what is
Oh, i'm, sorry. Uh, sorry i'm drinking critics and fans alike are now less interested in actually
interpreting a piece of media thematically or to engage with why they liked or disliked it
But instead to pick it apart and break it down to the base components of what are essentially it's pure unflinching
I've read this before you've read that part. I'm sorry. Something's familiar with that. I'm i'm, sorry
I'm having difficulty concentrating. Uh, that's that's the the hunger for facts above all else
Leads to things like quote unquote filler episode
Becoming a derogatory term for stories that don't advance the larger ongoing plot
Of a narrative or don't include some shocking new revelation that someone can add to a list
Okay, this is not a result of fucking with canon. Nobody says like you fucked with canon
That's why you have a filler episode. I don't even know this is a complete different conversation
Like what it means. Yeah filler episodes are part of the canon. Those are still events that happen
They usually refer to filler because they could be skipped by the general audience and nobody would miss out on any discussion about the show
It seems like they're trying to say that filler episodes are caused by trying to adhere to canon and
Is that what they're saying? But that doesn't make any sense. No idea
Let's let's go to what is a what is a filler episode?
Right what defines a filler what can we at least agree would be probably a filler episode
An episode that doesn't advance the overall plot. It's probably the general way. I look at it
All right, but you can but a filler episode can still do things like develop individual characters
Yes, tell stories about the world. They can world build really well
Depending on your definition if someone said no filler episodes would have none of that i'd be like, okay
Okay
It's still possible that they could be pretty entertaining though
Yeah, absolutely. They can be. Absolutely. I probably referenced the ball episode from community. That would be something
Nobody no characters get like a journey completed in that one as far as I remember
They're literally saying the hunger for facts above all else leads to things like filler episodes
What?
Yeah
Not necessarily. I don't see the causal link here. That's what I mean. I don't in fact
The hunger for facts above all else leads so they're saying the creators want to avoid
Uh conflicting facts so much that they will create filler episodes
Uh, well that's on them. I don't know what to say about that. It's not even necessarily
If an episode is made to connect two important plot points, it's not a filler episode then you can't take it out
As a singular, you know, that's what a filler episode is
It's kind of one that is, you know, not necessarily the overarching plot. It's just there to fill in it, you know
Sorry, I just i've read it a couple times now
so I think what they're saying is the
We don't like filler episodes because we like plot getting progressed because we love them facts that we can add to lists
No, they say why they say why that's what it says like it it's because it's so that's somewhat a shocking new revolution
Revelation that someone can add to a list if it doesn't add that they they this person thinks
that a filler episode means that
The four of us essentially we can't have new things to add to our archival list of canon
Yeah, which is not true
We act as if it doesn't have any value to to the universe. Therefore
We don't like them
This is a very very malformed section of this paragraph that we're trying to sort of decipher for the author
um
filler episodes are
Not necessarily bad, but they can be
I don't mind a filler sure because whenever we describe something as bad because filler
We're probably referring better to bad because bad filler not bad because filler
Yeah, well there are plenty of episodes that I love that are filler
Yeah, exactly an interesting point of reference like you can have an episode that is mostly
And it still advances the plot only
Briefly and so it's not one or the other where one is a filler episode or one advance the plot
It can be a spectrum on that one
um
And the group first example of this is actually mandalorian where there's a decent amount of filler episodes and they advance plot very like
Tight like in small measures
But they can actually be completely disregarded like when I watched the last two episodes of mandalorian last night for uh efap
My kids weren't up to that, but they were able to pick up
Really like without yep, because there are only four plot episodes, you know, it's really one three one three seven eight
And you can have if you have a filler episode
Where a character gets flushed out and we develop a lot more
Empathy for the character and relate to the character a whole lot more
That might not necessarily have anything to do with the plot
But it increases how much we care about the character when they are doing important plot things later
Great exactly. Yep
so
I don't know how
Odd to tie in filler episodes. Yeah, I feel like I don't even know why this came up
Um does seem like it has been pulled out of left field here
The only thing I could imagine is just that they're like you guys are so focused on details
That you like can't even enjoy filler episodes anymore. I'd be like, uh
That's just a really weird statement like I don't really know what to do with it
But
I could enjoy villa your badminton for saying otherwise
Yeah, I can enjoy filler
um
It predicates the gatekeeping act of being a fan that is built on how much you know about a thing
Whether over whether you actually enjoy that thing or not
Good, um, I would prefer
That of the other way around. Um, I mean maula had a good point before if someone claims to have enjoyed star wars and that they're a fan
And yet they don't know what a lightsaber is
I would have to question you have to call it down. That's like, okay. So what are you like?
because
You don't even know what it is
like if we get really like almost definitive about this we're like so passion dictates that you would have some memory of the basic elements of
this media and
Lightsabers are one of the corest iconic elements of stars. How did you miss those and how do you not remember them?
And then if they go on to say like well, I remembered, you know phases you'd be like, oh you're that's not
Well, i'm a fan of star wars damn it
Yeah, someone could be extremely enthusiastic about star wars, but they can
Want and add a bunch of stuff that is completely contradictory to previous information
So and that's bad. It doesn't matter if they really really enjoy star wars or not
It's almost like you've given a small child the keys to the kingdom when it comes to
Creating canon like if you gave a 10 year old
idiot chilled child because kids are stupid and you give them
The just the total free license to make whatever they want for star wars
Like you're gonna fuck it up because it's gonna be gibberish. Yeah, it's gonna be a 10 year old
this is just like an ongoing to pay on what it even means to be a fan because like
You know, you don't say to someone like I have a mild interest in such things
You go. Yeah, no, i'm a fan. I'm a fan. You just say that casually and then someone's like you're a fan
Do you know about all the wikipedia articles and you're like, no
It's the difference I guess between people who love
An ip and people who love the idea of the ip
I think so and I also think it has to do in part with how much people understand about just
You know in general the idea of um
A story that exists beyond
Simply each individual component, you know
There's a story to star wars that is beyond each individual film and it's something that you need to align with because
That's like that's the thing that binds them all together as part of the ip
So if you start changing things around and creating it without any regard for that
Yeah, you're going to create something. That's the mess
I also think that there are levels and different types of fans
um
And like you can have a casual fan
I think people will be happy to acknowledge that they exist then you have the concept of a true fan
And I would be hard pressed to acknowledge someone as a true fan of star wars who doesn't know what a light saber is
And it wouldn't even be a personal thing. Like i'm not even aggressive. I just be like, no, it just seems categorical that you
Are what's required?
I'm, sorry. Yeah, exactly
And it's not a gatekeeping thing. He's like, we're not saying you can't enjoy what you're like
This is why I literally can't understand how it's possible
This is why I want to ask questions because if if they were like, yeah, sorry
I forgot uh, I I've got bad memory with this sort of stuff
But then they go on to say like they love luke's arc. They love um, the incredible effects and i'd be like, okay
Yeah, okay. That is a weird thing to forget but fine. I guess you just forgot it
What's it called a bay blade is that what it's called?
No, man, you gotta say uh a laser sword
That's what you gotta say to piss off all of the fans
I actually think you know that the uh star wars
Sequels have revealed a new type of fan as well
Like the type of fan that really loves cannon, dare I say and stuff
Because it's these types of fans that hate these crap
Who respects it as opposed to
Can it's it's beyond just merely consuming it I would say yeah
Yeah, and honestly, I I think you can always use it as a kind of point of reference to figure out
What type of fan someone is based on if they like them see yeah, it's a bit of a litmus test. It's like
You know, how much do you care about cannon? I don't give a shit. All right, cool
What do you think what do you think of the sequels? Oh, they're great. Okay
Okay, you say you love star wars you're like cool cool cool. I gotta go. I gotta head out. Uh, but cool cool cool
Yeah, let's see, um
It's an attitude that in turn feeds the equally unruly and constantly growing spoiler culture
Because a fandom that values pure details above all else
Puts weight in the knowledge of those details
What does that link to? What are they what are they saying about spoiler culture?
because
It's been around since I think ever
Yeah, I think their idea is that um, it's
They're talking about spoiler not as in spoiling a movie
But spoiler as in ruining it for other people because they get hung up on little details. Is that what they're trying to say?
Oh, yeah, because little details
Yeah, the little details love little details
Any sense at all
like
Kills hon solo like it's not a little detail
Well, yeah
This comes back to the hella greeter video we covered where he said the fucking um, what did you describe as a little detail regs?
Do you remember was the hyperspace kamikaze? He said that's a detail
How could you possibly classify that that way that's ridiculous
Little detail one of the big details
Uh, let's see. Yeah people people want to experience the story unfold
In a certain way. They don't want to be unceremoniously told after the fact what to expect which ruins the tension and suspense
and a desire to adhere to canon does not inherently conflate and equate to
The cancer culture with meaning the desire that you don't want to know what happens in a movie before you watch it
like don't that that that's super
The whole idea of like the canon is that it enables you to be able to
it's
The reason why it's important that things make
I don't know what I mean
The reason why it's important that things make sense is because if things don't make sense it becomes impossible to gauge what can or cannot happen
What is possible what could be expected and what things could be unexpected but still makes sense? There are there is nothing anymore
Nothing makes sense. For example, this is a cat picking up mjolnir. We've got enough to believe it's actually possible
So seeing it is still a surprise, but it makes sense
Well, whereas if a cat just jumped into the air and started flying
And just going oh, no, the interesting thing is if you watch that film in isolation, you might be like, huh?
I wasn't even
But with canon
Yeah, you could only appreciate that because of the canon the movie is one of the benefits of canon
You can build up to things you can build up to things for a very long period of time and have these really cool reveals
I am a major advocate of that
Well, this is why I get really annoyed when people act like canon is a restricting component if anything it's it's really useful
Because I mean it can be both
TFA is the perfect example
It's like I don't care that
Kylo kills Han that much because i'm kind of confused as to their relationship in the first place and I don't even know who kylo is
If we had three movies prior to that that built up their entire journey that moment might have been incredible
Well, and honestly even in the context of the movie and it is
But han he just gave up on his family and son
Look between the four of us if we were to write a three a set of three movies between the ot and the st
Could we manage to fix at least partially han in tfa?
But without changing it is it possible. It's like oof. That'll be tough
And I wouldn't want to because the end result is so
No, I know i'm arguing that canon could actually save that movie to a degree
Which is the opposite of what this article's arguing?
Yeah, it's basically retroactively trying to fix it by explaining everything that they got wrong in the first place
Maybe if like kylo had done something unspeakable to han to make him really
Really cut ties and stuff
Yeah, I mean, I I think I think we would just go with that one that is often talked about and suggested that leah gets to be
A bit of a like bit hawkish and she goes nuts trying to erase the empire bay and we make sure that we let it be known
It's coming from like an unlike a not a set of she's never got closure about alderaan and she's constantly held that against the empire
No matter who works for them or why she hates them and like she could she could go too far, you know
Um, that could be the angle for why her and han have issues
Uh, we could easily work with that. There's something there. Yeah
There's validity to that now. Is it a bit in line with her, you know, very
Dominative kind of character it works. It it works. That's the thing. It could work or maybe that's better to say
It could work in line with pretty much anybody who just watched her planet get blowed up
Yeah, there's a lot you're willing to do if you watched your entire world and culture get destroyed in a blast in an instance. Yeah
Um
Let's have a take effort, but that will be canon. So fuck it
Okay, uh the need robs discussions about the stories we get of nuance and interpretation
Because who cares what you think happened?
When there's an answer from the word of god to that question you might have had
What is the point in the movie at this point
Yeah, what's the point in a story if I watch the movie you're going to be upset when there's stuff that definitively happens
But hang on like because who cares what you think happened when there's an answer from the word of god
Like he's basically saying people who believe incorrect things about a movie are justified in believing that that, you know
like
Darth vader was physically in the last jedi as a character like
Replace the word of god in that sentence with what actually happened because that's what they're actually referring to. Yeah
Um, because who cares what you think happened when there's an answer from what actually happened
Who does care what and it's not from some it's not from like an ethereal source it's from the actual film
Yeah, they're just using
you couldn't yeah, like
Well, what are some of the statements that defenders of last jedi and riser skywalker?
Have said that were objectively false from what actually happened in there because I know you've mentioned some in that
Oh, wait, are you are you asking what in my video?
Did I say happened that did not happen? No, no, no. No, no what what uh defenders people have actually said happened in those movies
There was one from thought theater recently right when we covered him yeah, he said something that we were like that's actually not what happened
um
It's weird because there's so many examples, but
The way that they're delivered to us. I can't I know that uh, what I could mention I saw on twitter because uh
Jay shared it because he was blown away
Someone said like he made a good video
But he missed the fact that leah was the one who possessed kylo at the end of the film to give life to ray
Yeah, which is not true. Like how the fuck did you conclude this?
Where did you get that from?
Well, see perfect example where what they're trying to say is invalid is perfectly valid because who cares what they think
That's not what happens. So it's so hilarious though, because if they were right, that would mean leah killed kylo or bed
You know, it's just like whoa. That's there's too many implications. We can't go that way
Well, if somebody came up to the author james whitbrook, right?
Um in said I don't think that ray was a character in the force awakens
The what who is he to tell him that they're wrong?
I just yeah, this is why this standard doesn't work guys because we all know that this is not and if he said yes
She is i'd be like you're appealing to canon and you're crushing my interpretation by appealing to
Oh, you're just being nipped. I see what you're doing. It's like
These are serious cracks at your point of view you need to address them
Yeah, uh
And more sinister tactic, you know, that's what's happening here. It's the best of a tactic. Yes
Sorry, just what rag said more sinisterly
I was actually about to kind of pause. That's an odd word sinisterly more sinisterly wouldn't it be that
Confirming if things actually happened in a movie based on what actually happened
Is very sinister, you know, it's sinister to say hey that didn't happen
and
even more
Sinisterly and now see i'm gonna write this down and it's going to be in gedel before and people are going to be like
Did someone actually say that you're like?
Yeah, james fucking whitbrook said it on his eye online.com place
Dude, don't be such a funny concept the whole idea
Nah, come on
Um and more sinisterly beyond the way it shapes our discourse
It's a craving that further enmeshes our love of a world not to the world itself
But to the masters behind that world
Oh
Yeah, that's fucking wrong credit
Hang on
We give credit to the people who made the cannon if they made good cannon and that's bad
I'm happy to give disney credit for everything that they've done
It i'm sorry
Why is this a bad thing that we we give
Bithering benches our love of a will not to the will itself but to the masters
But I would love to compliment the people who create the wills that I love
Yeah
It's really difficult
Like when I talk about the world of star wars, I don't think about like in the back of my mind
I'm, not constantly going george lucas our master our senior
Worshiping like no, it's like sure i'll give him credit
But I don't think about george lucas when I think about star wars. I think about the universe of star wars
but you can't just generally a good side you can admire the work of the creator like um,
Tolkien made a phenomenal world that it influenced fantasy
Forever like I guess since that
Still influential like so you can admire token for no stop. No
You're upset
though, is that uh toking agrees with um
The philosophy like the philosophy that I have and when it comes to the whole idea of consistency and like in world building
Like he doesn't agree with these people
That's well, that's probably why they don't cite him and they'll cite fucking what carbox instead in this story analysis
like why
You know that talking had a framework that worked out really well for him
Meanwhile this framework tends to yield really negative results. I know this is like antithetical to basically
Near like I couldn't think of any
Successful and competent writer who could agree with this crap
Like this is this is not like how you meant to create stories. I'm sorry
Basically somebody saying sure write stories, but information doesn't matter
Hold on. He's doing the reverse like a great guy to destroy stories. He's like, oh, yeah, cool
I think uh, I definitely think this comes from a very like
uh
romanticized view of what you know creating is the whole idea of uninhibited complete freedom, but that's kind of just like it is
it is a
I would say it is a
Unhealthy
Almost like an extremist libertarian view on creativity
Yeah, the whole idea that everything you you shit onto the page is gold
You should never try and put any restrictions on yourself. You should always follow your your heart first even though
You know what? Truth creating is effectively a machine. It's a mechanism. Yeah, it's like everything is good
Not trying to get like I'm not trying to get all tisny and stuff
But isn't it like the whole process it's like the heart suggests something in the mind like chisels it out into something
Exactly. The whole idea is you have an idea and then from there you're like, how do I make it work?
If it was as easy as doing what your mind told you to do. Everybody would be able to do it. Well, yeah
Yeah ideas are exactly ideas are cheap figuring out a way to make it work and have cause and effect
Constantly in play and everything makes sense is the hard part. It's really easy to come up with a high concept
And it's it's you know, it's really easy to imagine a world in your head
But it's much harder to create something
That other people can look at and feel like it's real and it wasn't you know
An invention or a machination or anything like that
Have you guys heard the story of that like the account from jim butcher when he had this argument with someone online?
So jim butcher is the author of the Dresden files and before he was even like a successful prominent author
He was arguing with someone saying ideas are cheap. It's about execution and this other person was like adamant saying
No, you need the best idea. Like that's what makes a story
And so jim butcher was like, all right
Give me the worst two ideas you can think of and he's like the hundred years war and pokemon
And then jim butcher went on and wrote like a best-selling series based on that idea
What is it called again? Is it the codex alara? Oh, I know that there is a um, there is I think we're thinking of the same author
Who basically took a bet
Yeah, that's jim butcher based on a really yeah on a really bad idea
And and that's that's fundamentally is the thing is is um, I don't I don't know about anybody else, but ideas are the easy part
Oh, that's really cool. That's yeah the idea that we we've got this before but like what is a bad idea to go
I don't know guy locked in a room and i'm like no no
This we can we can work with this there's things we can do
Like it's a bad execution. You could make random concepts. There's a whole movie with a guy in a phone booth
I can't even remember if that was good or not now bone booth
And buried is a film with a guy in a coffin for the entire thing
Yeah, like you could make weird and even seemingly bad ideas work brilliantly if you can execute it if you have talent
I'm not sure that there's such a thing as a bad idea
Even though i'm sure that I have said on times. This was terrible idea. You never should have tried this
Well, that's what people say about the sequel trilogy. It's like no, no, it was it poorly executed
What the hell your idea was hud solo was like this pathetic loser same for luke
You know like and it's like that's a bad idea to begin with and it's like, oh that's complicated because it could have been good
There's there's not there's no reason why it couldn't have been good
But unfortunately, can you make it good if your idea is luke is trying to kill his kid in bed?
Um, you would have to do so much work. Yeah, i was gonna say it's really freaking hard
It's it's going to be really hard and it's going to take you a really long time
So we you know, you might even thinking about it
You might be able to go the route that he was, you know, uh being controlled by something else temporarily or he was
Under some kind of mystical influence star wars has a bit of that, right?
The idea that isn't going to work is luke wants to kill his kid because he had a bad dream
That's not going to work in any world
I feel like that would be a categorization
It's a categorization thing as well because it'd be like what's the where do we get into the point of idea versus like that?
It sounds more like execution doesn't know it's an actual scene
Idea is a high concept
Yeah, like luke falling back on a lot of his values idea
But luke killing one of his own cousins as well they all deaf you whatever while they sleep
It's like that's an actual specific detail you've locked me into now
Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah, I I would say so and I guess that's that's probably like the big issue that i'm having with this whole article
Is it's got a very strange approach to the to the creative process the idea that cherish your ideas all ideas?
All all of your thoughts are fantastic
If you put restrictions on yourself based on external factors, that's arbitrary and stupid
Do everything that you that comes to mind immediately and don't question it because to be creative is to never place restrictions on yourself
This is just an absurd viewpoint
It's also useless for an artist because they do anything and they're like, why isn't this working?
You're like i'm doing anything that should work, right?
You're like and I think and I think um, I think that the fact that people intuitively recognize that something isn't working
It's kind of indicative of the fact that there is some sort of standard in our own head
That we're aware of which would probably just be cause and effect, you know, we're aware of these things
Even if we don't think about them consciously all the time
Sorry, that was a total tangent i'm sorry
I mean this article just cited the word of god. So, you know, we can probably go in different directions at this point
um
so let's see, um
to twist a
Turn a phrase there cannot be the death of the author if the authors got their own fandom wiki
Yeah, so they're not the death of the author versus the death of the canon they're two different things
Yeah
It's not even analogous. Yeah, like that's just not at all the same thing
It's not so when an when an author says luke skywalker, uh
Put his weapon down instead of killing his father you go
No, he didn't he killed him because death of the author. It's like no
That's not the author that said that that's the content like you're making this up
Um, so to wrap this up
It's fine if you want something to matter to a world and characters you care about
But it shouldn't be the be all and end all to your investment in them either
How can this not be invested in something that doesn't make sense?
All that's ever changing and what I mean by ever changing is it literally doesn't look like it did seconds ago all the time
I'm just like I don't even
What is this it's just a blob that constantly changes and moves it's like, okay, I guess I could watch that could be funny
Oh, that would be a good premise for character one that just every single day
But you know what's funny about that is the only way that I would want to have a character like that is if I had
Other characters they could bounce off of I need I need a baseline for that thing to
Be able to react to or be involved in just to have that on its own. Everyone's just me like, what is this?
Like okay, they're that character today. That's weird. Why don't you just make an anthology of different characters at this point? You'd be like, I don't know
same person
Fandom is such a wide shareable passion
I'm contentious with that full of different opinions and interpretations about a thing united by a shared
vested interest and love for storytelling
So if you have someone who says that they're a fan of star wars
But they give you all these opinions on why
The canon is pointless and worthless and how basically everything about it needs to be different than what it is
At what point does someone stop being a fan of something and they're actually a fan of some idea of it in their head that they have
mm-hmm
Like ryan johnson when he makes the last jedi
He's like are you a star wars fan or do you just have some fucked up idea about what it is in your head?
What it ought to be is probably the most you know
What what star wars ought to be seems to be the problem?
You get that whole conversation where they'd be like ryan johnson's an actual fan
You guys are what destroyed star wars by trying to stick to what it was. Oh, thanks guys
I thought that we weren't meant to gatekeep here. I thought we weren't supposed to be doing that
They'd probably go with counter gatekeeping like your gatekeeping and i'm just trying to prove it
Oh, yeah, yeah. Well, I like the idea. It's like i'm you know
I'm losing my mind here. I can't take it
Well, this was um almost uh, oh, uh,
valuing the sterile facts of those stories more than the things about them that makes us think or feel
Is it something with you know, like the canon is sterile facts. Wow
Let me give
Wait, let me give a sterile fact that obviously no one's really going to really care deeply about it's just a sterile fact
Uh darth vader died to save his son despite being almost irredeemable because he loved him
That's a sterile fact. Don't you hate it? The we only talk in sterile facts
Well, it's also the fact that understanding the sterile facts can actually enhance your emotional reaction
Tremendously if it makes sense to you if it makes sense
We've already mentioned the perfect example when cap picks up the hammer without knowing the facts of what happened before
That scene is going to have a vastly different emotional. You're like with someone who hasn't seen it before they're like
Why does it matter? Can anyone pick it up? You're like, no, actually
This is really big
That's a great example, right cap picks up a hammer that's a sterile fact, but it means a lot when you hear that you're like wait what?
Like that's that's those pesky sterile meaningless lame facts hate them
What is the story if not a sequence of events of things not a sequence of sterile facts
Yeah
But how do you how do you interpret all of those things?
Yeah, we we yeah, there there was clearly something that happened on screen with dialogue that accompanies it
But what is your interpretation of that thing no matter how bonkers?
In contrary to the information
Yeah, like to me this is not this is not valuable discussion when it's just like oh, but how you know
Like what is your interpretation of the facts? It's like guys
like
Can we just talk about what actually happened and why it's good or bad?
So does that do it for our intro?
Wow, what an intro two hours long. Yeah
Uh, pretty good might be might be a good point, uh for me to just quickly ducks, uh to the toilet before we get into a mando
Maybe we had to transition over it's like oh, yeah, by the way now time for an episode by episode breakdown of a tv show
After discussing whether or not a set of food is suitable for the average person
Now that I feel
And know that I can interpret things in whatever way I want and that's what's most important
Maybe the show will be good though
Damn. Yeah, I mean who knows if uh, if the things that you hated in it even happen, that's just your interpretation of the event
Do you guys love that this is the world that we live in when nothing matters nothing makes sense
It's it can be whatever you want
And so we can't even understand like the most basic things about what's happening in the story
I
prefer it that way
Makes discussion so much easier because I just say I like it
clarity and um and
You know causality. Why does reality need reality?
Reality is just sterile facts. It's not be in reality god
Uh
I want someone to make that
Make the series make the movie make the show where literally nothing makes sense. It's just random stuff is happening
All the time. There's no continuity. There's no consistency things just happen
Random and then not only will it be extremely unlikely you'll find anybody who has a passionate love for it
But they will never be able to explain why because that requires things to make sense
I mean when we talk about that it's like getting to the fundamental aspects of like reality at that point
Whether or not something makes sense, you know, this is how we make sense of the world
If none of that makes sense, what are we meant to do?
You
Ah
Let's see. It's just a sigh. It's like yep. All right, just like i'm glad that
Get you um
Even a lot of people who claim to say these things
I bet if they saw that show they'd be like this is shit
Well, that's that's been my position for a long time is deep down
Nobody actually believes this stuff people have some sort of internal thing in that that helps them figure out what's good and bad
You know like they're just willing to ignore it when it's stuff. They've come to quite like uh
Yeah, something that they've decided at this point that they want to yeah, because again, you know
Nobody really debates whether or not the room or birdemic is is bad. These are things that we just accept to be true
Uh, or not that we accept the obvious examples. It's yeah, it's it's just paddling
That's true
Yeah, and some things aren't obvious
Yeah, when things get less obvious then that's when it becomes uh more contentious
But again, you know, are we really going to go up to somebody and say so yeah
Do you think that uh, let's go good old citizen kane. Do you think that citizen kane is um is?
arguably as good
As uh twilight they're not gonna nobody's gonna say yes to that
Maybe stephanie mya would say yes
I I mean that would be that would be blindly arrogant
We don't know anyone like that
Nobody who says like their own work is so good that if they were only submitted or had the money they could
Make a masterpiece. Yeah, no one comes to mind at all
No, no particular youtuber
Um
But yeah, there's gonna be
Someone out there you just be like in terms of craft citizen kane the room which is superior
And then so we'll go well if you look at them as comedies, it's the room
I
Just want to clarify I just be like you mean if we look at it as though it was intended to be good
But uh, we laugh at how it failed to do so. It's like that's what you mean, right?
Someone in chat said is twilight the dark souls of citizen kane. Yes
I love how like that's just the go-to citizen kane is the movie that people side is being good
Even though let's get rid of most of us haven't watched it
I haven't seen it. It's it's good for jokes though to say something is the citizen kane of other
Well, I think it's because somebody said that the last of us is the citizen kane of video games
You know, like oh the citizen kane must not be very good then
Well, I mean I look I like the last of us, but it's it's it is one of the most overrated games of all time
Yeah, it's fine. Um, I I like it. But um
yeah
We got a we got a cool ad yet
2013 really was the because that was a year bioshock infinite came out too
I was like this is you know, this is what art a video game is art
Bioshock infinite. Yeah, and now we look back on it. We're like, yeah
I get how that happened because you remember the intro right? It's like everybody's just like this was mind blowing
It was epic. It was the all the things and it's just like yeah, but the game sucks
Yeah
It's all the vague like art things it does look totally photorealistic
Uh, the architecture is pretty cool. It's like yeah, the art's really good and all that but and the music's good and all that but um
Nothing works
And the story's really stupid. Unfortunately. Yeah
Yeah
Don't even go there the the amount of power elizabeth has and they just don't use it really at all throughout the whole campaign
How does it make me some cover?
They're like we need to pop over to a different universe where certain things happen to collect an item we need for hours
I'm like i'm i'm sorry. What what was you could just jump to a different universe?
If you die in one universe you go and send in the other it's like but if there are infinite universes
Then surely everybody is dead in some universe an infinite amount of times
Yeah, the problem is that they they are playing extremely fast and loose with what infinite means
I don't know any other property that may or may not have done that as of recently
It's not like it would have it in the name as well
Yeah, i'm just gonna be
If you are using the word infinite for your idea
Really double check and make sure that it's actually what you mean
Many crises on several earths. That's what they should have called it
Well, it wouldn't have sounded as cool if it was called crisis on a bunch of earths
Yeah, the fact that it's infinite earths mean the story don't make sense if it's crisis on a 100 earths you're like, okay
That makes sense at least. Yeah, this makes sense
Yeah, all of the infinite universes have been destroyed all right guys, so let's a quick math question
God crosses on infinite earths man
There's like the worst thing i've ever seen
It's so bad
Remember when when the stupid martian weird alien was like hey other dude you need to um
You need to do what you need to do at the right time
He's like, I don't know what it is. He's like, you'll know and then he's like, I know
And he teleports around them set of people all the paragons into the space between time and space
Yeah
Between time and space where there is both time and space but not everyone else by the way
Not everyone else. Thank you. Just fucking die
And and how was it got replaced because someone wrote their own name into the book of destiny
That makes being a paragon pretty meaningless doesn't it
Earlier we had that fight in like the first episode or something where were there on that non-descript
industrial construction
Yeah, yeah, and he teleports everybody to safety
He so we know that he can do that guy that they needed
You can't well, no he can teleport rags. We can't teleport to the space between time and space
Oh except when he decides he can no, no the other guy can not that guy. Oh, yeah, that's right
What are we talking about?
Crisis on it for the nerves one of the greatest pieces of media ever created
Not the comics the uh, the the cw crossover
I like the when that first episode came out. I think I told you like I had seen like twitter
I know brown table, but several others were complimenting how great uh, green arrows sandoff was
Do you remember all of us were just confused?
We were like confused and laughing and like and the best part was uh
After the fact it came out that he was acting against a tennis ball because the other actors had to be on set for their
other show
So he said he's acting against a tennis ball and the actor was willing to go to hell
That's crap. It's a perfect commentary on stakes because like it wasn't even canon that ruined it for us
It was just normal just cause and effect. We were like, okay, so
Earth is about to be destroyed
They're trying to teleport out a bunch of civilians even though the rest the universe is at risk of being destroyed anyway
So I don't even know how that I don't even want to start with that. Let's just go with it
They were trying to evacuate people by delaying the ghosts
You're like, how are they delaying the ghosts? There's like billions. It's like, okay. Well fine
Whatever they're doing that
Alien man is teleporting people out so that they don't die and for some reason
He takes ages to teleport green arrow to the point where green arrow fires an electric arrow at him to stop him from teleporting him out
Yeah, he runs out of arrows and instead of being like shit teleport me out now because I can't do anything
He shouts and runs at the ghosts like what are you doing?
And then he teleports him out and he's got scratches on his face and you're like, oh he's okay
It's like no he's dying. You're like he's dying. Oh, okay ghost scratches. Nobody makes any effort to help him
No, he's in a he looks like he's in some kind of medical facility. He's in one of the goodies or whatever
But they're just letting him die
Yeah, he teleported him to a place where his blood appears on the bed before he does
Oh, so and just like the final battle. It's just this it's just some small industrial yard again
It's a gravel
It's like a gravel pile
And then the the floor the gravel pile in some of the shots was a green screen. It was cgi
Yeah, it's like that it shoot it there. And then you have ps2 level graphics
Probably even worse than that. I'm pretty sure that like ratchet and clike had better animation
Well, that's what really separates the the artists from the idiots like don't mean to be too mean
But what I mean is like when you know, you have limited resources like alien
Alien is the the example. It's like alien looks incredible and they had like such limitations in terms of what they actually had to be good
So I remember it wasn't something about like they originally intended the alien to be more visible throughout the whole film
But they were just like it just looks better the less we show it. It turns out it just makes the film
scarier more
Atmospheric as well as making the enemy just so confusing as to what exactly it is and what it wants. Oh, wow
I just think it's um
In general a lot of people it's the reason why a lot of indie games have pixel artists like yep pixel art
We can make that faster. We don't really have the money to spend on our on big graphics, uh 3d graphics
So we'll just do pixel art because it'll still look really cool. Then this was like check out our cgi. Yo
I mean, I think it's a big problem with the uh, and it's the reason why dead ever works
Well is because it's like yeah, this is a ground level superhero. I mean you don't need visual effects
Someone just reminded me. Uh, he says when he teleports him and he fought to his last breath and he's still alive
I just love how he shot an electrified arrow to dude and then
Stopped him from being able to teleport the cw
Mutt and shops the cw is like parody levels of tv
It's like how do we make it like a deliberately bad one that people could enjoy worse?
And um, and also like for for reference, uh, those of you who are watching so i'm watching buffy right now
With uh with maula buffy was on like the one of the wb which was the progenitor
To the cw that's where the w comes from
Yeah, exactly. It's uh, it's something it's a combination. I think of our cbs and and warner brothers. I think that's the idea
Yeah, i'm saying like cbs and warner bros. Yeah cw it's just it's just nuts to me
That this show originated on the same network considering how good it's gotten by the time we get into like season five and six
And uh, yeah when you watch stuff like uh, infinite isms it's like oh my god
I forgot what this can be like the barrel
Yeah, pretty much. Uh, I would be hard pressed to pick something
Worse and I know that probably people will be like, oh, they're like b movies that are worse than this surely and i'd be like
I don't know man, like nothing works in in crisis on infinite earths
I mean, I feel like even those b movies probably have greater stretches of time where we're like, yeah
I mean this mostly makes sense
Yeah, it is. It is the step above coherent or sorry incoherent necessary for you to call out things like oh
That's the character and time is progressing
forwards slowly
Well, yeah, because we're talking about a show where they're teleported beyond time and space but there is both space and time
Oh, yeah, they went to the dawn of time too. They went to purgatory. Don't forget
Yeah, purgatory, um, but not purgatory in purgatory in a specific universe or what was it?
Or do all universes have one purgatory?
Well, do you remember like shad their goal is to get?
Uh green arrows soul and hits in purgatory and they go there they find him
This is after like two episodes of searching for him and then some dude just turns up and goes no green arrow
It's your destiny to become spectre and he's like, okay and walks on it's like what?
They have to leave without him. It's like oh
To some people somewhere in this in this crazy world that makes sense
Maybe with additional candidate would have freaking you don't know you don't know
Okay. Well, I mean did you watch the spectre tv show? I don't think so
And I love how at the end they just have some again warehouse somewhere in vancouver and um
I actually like vancouver a lot by the way
I'm just I'm just commenting on the fact that it's the home of the super paragon heroes of the universe
Well, I just mean I I like uh, I like vancouver as a city
It looks really cool when they celebrate like becoming a team at the end. It's like oh, yeah
And it just means nothing
And again, it's just some warehouse somewhere that looks like garbage
And they haven't glued on with like felt the the logos of all of the heroes
They probably sent like an uh, you know one of those assistants. It's like can you just go down to spotlight and just get some uh,
You know
What what's interesting is that all of their costumes are super cheap like they're actually focusing on hero work
And then you look at kate kane who will leave people trapped in an elevator
hanging for their life while she
While while she pimps while she like gets her hair. Yeah, she's such a good role model
Oh, and also like that hair is super impractical, you know, like yeah should be cutting that off if you want to fight people
People tying it tying it up slash down, you know tying it just away
Why do you think lara croft has her hair in a ponytail? It's because if it's all long it gets in her face
And it's gonna like I like how lara croft makes more sense
I have really long hair and
It's not loose when I want to do stuff or i'm moving around constantly because it gets in the way it swings around
And you know, it's a little bit of a difference in like you you actually have long hair as opposed to
Not having long hair but choosing to put it on and specifically when you're going yeah as craps point out
It's not even her hair like it's not even it's just an impracticality. She's put upon herself
Okay
Yeah, but you know, you got you got to you got to let alice get away with murder and style
But alice had long hair
She has to be seen as a woman
a woman
With her attitude of the show without her without the hair she looked like squidward or handsome squidward anyway
Yeah, that's what it was our thing from the fucking pilot
I remember or the first episode that those many many years ago when we watched the first episode and we had no idea
What we were getting ourselves into we saw the bat woman flying off of the balcony. Oh my goodness
We have no idea
I don't think we had yeah, we had no idea what we were in for
Because we were like this will probably be pretty bad, but we we were just not prepared
I don't think we thought that we were going to be watching the whole season and not only the whole season
Don't fret people think it's over. It's like no, no, no, it's it's coming just between editors right now getting there
Yeah, no, it is not over. I am
I am hungry for a more bat woman
Like I am I am i'm going through bat woman withdrawals
Speaking of tv shows that's my segue mandalorian speaking of bad tv shows
Racializer, um, so we just pick up where we yeah, I mean so we'd gone through the first five episodes in a lot
I love that anyone who wanted the part two to the stream will come to this one look for the timestamp
Be like what two and a half hours they start continuing cool
What was the first bit about?
Um
So yeah, I suppose we'll just format will again be just pointing out things hopefully in chronological order
That screw with the episode that we're currently discussing and then hopefully we can reach some kind of conclusion at the end of all this
I guess
Who would you know, this is the episode with bill burr
It's the one where they like get a group of people to go on a form of a prison breakout
You could call it a heist episode in some way. You think it'd be funnier?
With bill burr in it. Yeah, you didn't like the joke about stormtroopers not being able to aim rags. No, it made me sad
I will say I don't think i'll do devil's advocate as much this time around but if there are criticisms
I think aren't fair or fully valid. I'll probably just share a counter argument here
Very well, but there are more issues to pick apart especially um after this episode in the last two so
Um, so this episode had a lot of cool actors in it
It really did a lot a lot clancy brown bill burr richard. I already
Uh the girl welder number three that one can't go wrong with that
And also had the cameo from uh, all of the directors from the show
Yeah
In that really good scene the really really good scene
Yes
So, um, I guess i'll just get the ball rolling. Uh, he he arrives and the first thing I think it's worth discussing
Is that it's kind of lucky there's no bounty hunters with any fobs in this station or near it, right?
Um, well, that's the thing are they bounty hunters?
It's like a port. It's not uh, it's not necessarily yeah
No, it wouldn't it wouldn't mean that they would have to be bounty hunters here, but it could be
But we know that based off the crew that we have that the right kind of people are here
Yeah, it's a duplicitous kind of it's not it's not a place for people who are above the law
I mean bounty hunters are
In accordance with the law, right?
Oh, yeah
Yeah
Sure
But I guess um the whole idea is you kind of expect bounty hunters to be in places where criminals are because those are the people
That they're going to be going for yeah makes sense at the time
Well, I mean it's the kind of place that the republic the new republic certainly think is worth just destroying the whole platform. Yeah
Yeah
Hold that's my favorite criticism. You have to hold off on that one. Okay
That's the one that makes me laugh every time I watch this episode. Um, I'm trying to get a good shot of it
Is it worth posing the defense that I think people would give to that?
criticism or just I think that um
It's just a small small like there
They could be and they could also not be in this area for this episode to progress there needs to not be and there isn't
Okay
Could there I think there could be a justification for him to be assured that there isn't anyone there with a fob
It might be a stretch but you might be well
The reason we have to believe that them that against it is the fact that he talks to the guy and the guy is aware of
The guild and why mando has been booted out of it. It's like ooh
That information has spread to this post like
Gotta be careful
It yeah, it's shown that like everyone's got these fobs and people will
Not everyone bounty hunters are just a lot of people have them they're not they're not
Well, everyone in the guild had one like yeah
bounty hunters
but
Everyone in a whole guild which non bounty hunter have we seen with a fob?
I I I which bounty hunter?
No, no, which non bounty hunter have we seen with a fob?
I don't think there was one. It's a thing
Like yeah, I want to say everyone I was like just a lot of people we know everyone in the guild has
Yeah
Yeah, I'm not suggesting that your average citizen just has a fob that has a link to baby Yoda. Yeah
Um good thing they weren't here, I guess this this would be um, i'll hand it over to rags to to help
Explain it, but is there anything wrong with bilbo's gun holster's ranks?
They are they make no fucking sense and they would get in the way and they do they do
Get in the way of his arms all of the time
Um, this isn't one of those like this is one of those little show little picky sort of things, I guess
But it's one of those aspects of you are pulling me away from the realism of this universe because you want to have guns
Just strapped to some why they want to rip eye grags
This is not an invalid criticism rip it apart if they get details like that wrong. That's why I'm
Important to the
Any sense at all in any way, yeah, I don't know guns but I know swords and when they get detailed
I guess it is a question shad. Would you put a bunch of daggers on the armpits?
What?
Well, they're not even under his armpits
I was gonna say that's probably more practical than what he's got going on here
Like just imagine those pistols didn't have the grip and they were daggers
Imagine who was trying to when he tries to un-sheep it it's going to be annoying as hell
It's like shit
You can already picture it right like his right arm there would have to
Go over he has to stretch out and go over that one. Like it's really awkward
Yeah, i'm actually opposite arms here. I'm actually curious from like a filmmaking perspective how they got those to stick in there
And the 95 percent of the scenes we see them where someone isn't removing a gun from them
Well, yeah because you can see in the scenes in places where his arms are like they stop his arms
And they they move around when his arms brush against them
And naturally I think that they did something to secure those inside the holsters except for the scene
Where what's her what's his face takes?
The right and the fact that they had to do that probably should occlude them into not doing this at all, you know
This is the shittiest load-bearing gear I have ever seen it looks it's just one of those
It's one of those disney star wars things of let's just slam guns on him
Just put I don't even think it looks cool, but I guess they're going by the guns
He's got four guns for his two arms
It does yeah to me. It just looks awkward. Uh, it does. It looks very awkward. It's stupid
It is instantly something that I looked at and it was like that's dumb
why
We have that in real life we have like holsters that you can put on your chest
But they're they're they're in the center of your chest and they're horizontal
They're not they like the you know, the nathan drake holsters the ones that you strap over and then they go sort of by your waist
Right. So maybe if you're also like side holsters on they they don't exactly
Generally, they're underneath your armpits and you cross
Like if you're right-handed, it'll be on your left side and you reach across your chest and pull it out
Um, i'll just uh, i'll need to fight and if it's on like a plate carrier vest then it'll be in the center
Generally up a little bit higher
The uh, I was gonna say the whole stormtroopers can't aim we'll save that for episode eight because uh, it's it's worse
It's worse than what bill bursch says what we get in episode eight. So we'll leave it for now. Um
Before we move on though going back to them knowing about mandalorians, you know bounty and stuff like that
Even without them being bounty hunters if they know enough that the guild is after him
I would think a valid criticism is like
It shouldn't it be too hard to figure out why the bounty hunter guild is after him?
Like he has this important asset that he didn't even if they don't know that's valuable
Even if they don't know why but they capture him they've got it. They would know he's worth money
And it's not like so that's all
Yeah, it's not like the guild wouldn't accept him. Didn't um
Didn't the target in episode five or six? Uh, no, she knew specifically that it was about a baby
I think so and I because if they know that bit mandalorian has this really valuable asset
You'd think that they would be yeah certainly wanting to find it
And as to if they want to capture mandalorian himself
Well, they need his help to free this other guy
And so they might still want to hide that fact and then capture him after they get get there
So I could I could kind of grant that part
But as to how they wouldn't know about the situation when it's pretty basic information that
Bounty hunters go to capture someone mandalorian is wanted by the bounty hunter guild for not delivering the thing he captured
Ergo, what does he have that's so valuable and that that seems like and if you were
If you were to prod that information whatsoever you'd find out it's an extremely valuable target
Oh, yeah
Massively, so so that's odd. I definitely will agree there and point that out too
Um
I guess that's a relevant
Super chat
My theory is that beer is lying about his military past and he knows nothing about his guns
Hence his bad aim and him having holsters in awkward places. He's not
Selectively. Yeah, his aim is very good
It's kind of like mandalorian
Yeah
And also if he was lying about uh, military history in some capacity
I don't know. He seems to have why would you lie?
He's made the point man. I seriously doubt he would be if he didn't he hadn't proven himself at this point
I earned it in some way and the one dude trusts him
The old man. Yeah, the the scruffy looking guy
likes him
So can I point something out? That's uh, that's uh, like uh,
A pet peeve of mine. I'm not sure if it would have come on naturally
But at this point do we see?
Bill burrs robot arm with the holding the gun coming out this early on or is that only in the actual finding?
They deliberately obscure it so it can be a surprise for us
Okay, because this is my pet peeve
All right. Okay, that would be kind of cool having a mobile turret that can deploy from your back with a single gun
I'm not criticizing that it might not be useful i'm criticizing the fact if something like that exists in the
Why isn't anyone else using it like this is something that becomes apparent in many parts of this episode
Yeah, we've got more of those
Really annoys me in world building when people add something in without properly extrapolating how that would fit in logically
Exactly. Just just think about it. If this is this useful, why wouldn't everybody use it?
Exactly, you know, it isn't really might say cost
But but droids are really cheap at sea and like you can build things out of scrap and everything
There is so much technology and infrastructure that's gone and rotted away and everything
There is so much stuff everywhere. They can build crap out of in star wars
I don't think it would be expensive to get something like that even for a regular person
So just do the uh, just do the accident thing from borderlands two or anything where you have the character has built a
Or have a custom made or a they have built it themselves
It's a little turret this little turret buddy. It even has a little name, right?
They call it or whatever or elvira or shiniqua or whatever
They want to call it and they talk to it in this kind of amorous way like it's my buddy robot
You know is my friend my little turret robot and he sets it out and it he puts it on walls or on ceilings
Or he deploys it and it makes something like that
They give it a character to give a little like a little combat
unique thing to that person
Not just it's an arm that comes out of my back and it holds a pistol like that's kind of actually that's super lame actually
Um, yeah, and like they could was it custom that you know
But then it's odd because the technology is already in place to allow something like that pretty well
And honestly, this is a flaw in star wars generally that the they don't employ their ai technology in applications
That are just bloody obvious when it would be really useful
Like they have human targeted gun turrets that someone needs to sit in fire when they could have ai targeted something that is far more
You'd have to come up with something as due to the incredible prevalence of
hacking and ai corruption software
Um having things be manually operated reduces this risk of that technology being corrupted and used against you or something like that, right?
Where yeah, and that's a good explanation
Because they talk about that mass effect and one of the the first one like the codex's
Where like before ships even begin to shoot things at each other. It's like two
Entire hacker battles happening where they try to infect everyone's subsystems and stuff like that
um
And so it was like, all right
So our solution for in universe is to make everything hardwired and man operated
Kind of going back to the basics in a sense so that nothing and not everything can be hacked instantly and float up
So next up and that would answer it well
um, yeah
So the premise of this job is going to require that a droid has full control over security and his ship
Alone in his ship with baby yoda and this isn't a deal breaker for mando
What we just wanted in a string of bad decisions that mando makes
Where he doesn't seem to care about the kid anymore
And it highlights two issues one his
flippant inconsistent care for baby yoda, but two is extremely inconsistent mistrust of droids
If anything, I think this is the ultimate one in all of the episodes where he should be putting his foot down and saying
No, I don't feel like this is the guy i've come to understand. I feel like this is someone else
But he will make deals with assassin droids he's just met and been shot at by before
As the mission's being explained the droid is hacking into his ship and discovering old messages it infuriates me because i'm like
Precisely and then the episode ends with the droid almost killing baby yoda and it's just like oh jeez
This is the kind of stuff that you should have
Mander you should have like really big concerns about the potential of this and it actually happens
Yeah, this part is very inconsistent. I mean you might be able to justify it with the uh, the droid with you know quill
Doing so much trying to convince that it is safe, but now in this instance
Yeah
Like there's not much reason at all for mando to be willing to trust this thing
And if you had a guy who was like we have to have this robot character in there
It has to be a part of the mission and uh, it's going to have to be the pilot because no one else can pilot
Like it can i'd be like, okay
He will keep uh, he will be on the robot the entire mission in that cockpit watching him
And while it's there the whole time kind of and then when when the ship has landed secured the robot
He'll say like he won't do the mission unless the robot is going on point with the gun and he'll be behind it
Because you don't trust it
And someone else can stay in the cockpit
What shad had mentioned earlier with um quill and the robot reconstructed
One would think one would think
That after mando goes through this episode
and
spoilers
figures out that he has been betrayed and that the robot was working against him the whole time and that the robot tried to
Specifically kill baby yoda and it hacked into his systems. You would think that this would be extra cement
That would solidify
You would think that after all this happens he would doubly not he'd be like i'm
He'd be like i'm right about droids 100
This would be a setback for this should yeah, this should ruin any chance of him trusting quills robot
Yeah
He's not going to trust him in two episodes
The standard thing we we were just
Talking about I think it was when we were first rewatching the show ready for the first evap on this was just that um
Why couldn't you made season one about him and the droid getting baby yoda back to the the bounty holder and they go on several different
You know missions together the droid forever desiring to deposit baby yoda
But as the season progresses mando is less and less interested in that, you know as they bond and stuff
And he realizes that that robot
I don't know that there's no reason there's a lot that's like a season on its own
But they fucking you know, they kill it at the end of the first episode you're like, oh
That's a big problem is you could have had a whole season that was just mandalorian going on adventures and we're learning about
What he believes his view on the world his methodology his process and then we enter season two
With him finding baby yoda like that. Well season one's
season one's climax for me would be the um
The droid's been helping and saving him throughout the season to work with this bounty
He has to make the choice to yeah the droids like we give up this bounty we get the money and mando's like
Mando kills it. Yeah
That could be a pretty big moment. He's killed. This is the thing. That's that's a double payoff
He kills the droid to screw himself with the guild
But he also doesn't want to kill the droid because he likes the droid which goes against all of his history
Yeah, you got lots
Direction to go and and that's what I mean
It's kind of impactful in the first episode a little bit as a surprise
But it would have been way more impactful from a character perspective had they done the groundwork
But they're in such a rush to get through these eight episodes for some reason
And this is the thing you can keep all these episodes the same except he has a companion the whole time being the droid and taiko
Ititi's voice and the writing you can make it really fun
Yeah
This show could have been really good is the point that we're trying to make
We were on it. We were really on its side. We really were
Yeah, you can go back to the older efaps where we advocate
Uh, yeah, yeah
I still maintain hope I think there's enough to work with that. They could I don't have any
For our season two. I think like, you know, uh series have come back from rocky starts and stuff
and
Exactly and the concept and what they have to work with is still solid enough that season two could still be actually good
So the problem is I feel like there's a lot of things that they could have done which they're no longer in a position to do
Unfortunately certain character artsy could have gone on certain growth. Uh
That is no longer really viable anymore. That's a problem. I think for me. I don't think it's impossible for the next one
But I have no confidence
I've become a tad cynical and i'm trying to remind myself every single time that I say hey the next installment could fix this
All up i'm like you said this so many times now. It's never happened maula
Maybe but probably not yeah, I mean, you know, we'd have a dough rise of skywalker could have fixed everything right guys as possible, right?
I just think that the storytelling talent is there
It just isn't there. Yeah, I guess the problem is I don't have faith in the uh,
Saheel the as he said, uh buffy had two bad seasons. It's like buffy came out in 1997
This is uh, this is a while ago that we're citing something that got better
Not to mention that even if we cited five things that got better i'd be like we're still dealing with
Hundreds of examples. I think reverse happens. That's why i'm cynical. Okay, and we just said it's not impossible just cynical
Unfortunately things do seem to decline in value after they begin
After episode one. Yeah, look at look at marie concluded from what I said. We knew less about storytelling in 1977
What no we didn't that's not that's not at all what I was trying to say
You were just you were just referencing that it's I mean
For a series to get better after it's begin
Yeah, if our if our first go-to example is something that came out more than 20 years ago
I'm like, yes, that kind of just supports what i'm going on about
How cynical about it you think we'd have more experience now with all these terrible examples to learn from but
Are the hits just keep coming?
Yeah
uh, so the razor crest is a ship the
The name of all the the model the make of the ship the mando uses a couple of characters reference it throughout the season
They're like, oh, that's a razor crest
Uh razor crests are so old that they can't be recognized by the new republic or the empire because they're not in their systems
This is ridiculous. It makes it so that they don't turn up on like radars
Yeah, this is like cops not knowing what an el camino is. Well, it's it's it's like the idea of your computer being incompatible with something
because it's older rather than you which does happen but not
it's it's more of like a
Do you get what I mean when I when I say like it's weird that you would have technology that is
Incompatible because it is older rather than anywhere and plus you that's not how that's not how modern
Not sure. I just don't get it. I just radar. I didn't realize it had anything to do with knowing the make or model
It was just the that's what moving objects
What if you make your own custom ship?
It's one of a kind you just do whatever you want. It's not to mention that people recognize it
They're like, oh, it's that one. It's like surely it's on record in some way
First episode in like the pre in like the preamble bit of the first episode. Oh, it's a classic
I'm trying to remember the exact wording they used to say why they needed the razor quest because
It was something to do with the fact that if they used it they would be able to sneak up on the prison ship without being spotted
Yeah, they have to because that that that's undermined by the fact they have to fly so weirdly to not get spotted
And so yeah, they're trying to remain in a blind spot, but they still they want to be in the razor grass because it's
You would think that would be something that
Another point of contention though is that they're doing this all after an exiting hyperspace next to the prison ship
How do you not detect an exiting hyperspace like as a ship?
Which by the way, how do you not detect a ship docking on your i'm not even like looking to reference cannon?
I'm literally just talking about like that just seems impossible to not know but you can it's in rogue one
They detect hyperspace is opening before it does they're like, sir
Hyperspace is coming out over there and then they look over and then it's a darth vader and all of his star destroyers are coming in
Like stop focusing on cannon
So
Yeah, really tismy space rules really and there's an actual dude
There's a straight-up dude in the ship like could he would he not have cameras detection?
Does the ship not shake when you attach your ship to it?
Like does the ship not have cameras on the outside so that it can see at all angles if anything's approaching it
I mean and what's funny is cloaking does exist in universe
And so they could have just said we're gonna come out of hyperspace far enough away
So they're not detected. We're gonna attach a cloak to your ship and fly in but
Well, they could say the reason they're using his ship is the it's a deposit
It's like they're not risking one of their ships
They're letting him come along and they'll pay him if he can only if he puts his ship up as collateral
Like it could be the thing. Yeah, all they all they have to do is in case you get caught and they identify the ship
We don't want that coming back to us
That's all you have to say. It's super simple, but fuck it
um
So if you remember zero goes into the ship he tampers with it for a bit
He discovers the the flickers of message that he'll eventually
Try to hack the full thing out of and mando was like nah, it's not happening
And then he's like I have better responses and reaction time to you i'm i'm doing it
Initial thing. I was just like why would that convince mando? He knows robots will have better reaction time than humans. That's just like
Yeah common sense like what?
But like apparently that's enough. It's like oh, all right then
Uh that comes back to a point we're making earlier, but yeah, uh
further more
Uh zero is like why are we using this ship and he highlights like it's not very good in certain ways
And then the old dude says he explains the benefits of it
And it just confuses me. This is all a ruse. They already know that they're all doing this to screw over mando
This is the thing that is a big secret. So why would zero even question why they're using his ship like?
Yeah, they know why they're using his ship they're screwing him over
Not just that but this ship has specific things they needed like to do in this mission like why wouldn't zero know that he's the pilot
Yeah
This is a little bit too late to ask this question
Yeah, it could be a ruse it's not a good defense that the robot is doing to convince mando lori and that you know
Like what's the point? He wasn't even questioning it, you know
Clearly so far. He wasn't even questioning it. He was already here
Well, I just assumed it was it was just to give an opportunity to explain to the audience why they're using his ship
Well, I mean we know that's why they did it. Yeah
Random thing. I do like the design of his ship. I think it's a very I like the design of a ship
I think it looks awesome. I am okay with it. Yes
I think it looks really cool
Um, yeah, there's a there's a line. I just want to make sure we remember bill burr says mandalorians are the greatest warriors in the galaxy
Um, this is as good as it gets guys. Yeah
mando is
Yeah, they definitely won't get massacred by stormtroopers
Well, it does annoy me that everyone's forgotten the jedi so much. I mean, yeah
Hey, we gotta wait until episode seven and eight for that floor
But what about the faction that basically what about that faction in that war that I was alive to witness
What about who was fighting against the droids again, I don't remember no one told me
um
So, um
if if we're to believe that this ship is really the one ship they needed because of uh
That's the way it works with this blind spot and all that stuff. It's like damn as lucky he had this ship then
Otherwise he wouldn't be able to do this mission
Like
Uh, if you're confused with the conveniences, so it's he needs money he contacts them
They happen to be doing a mission that requires that this ship requires his ship
Yeah, and uh, that's the only way he could have gotten in he they wouldn't have let him on this mission
If not for that, apparently it's just like oh damn, but they needed his ship for the mission anyway
That they had already planned
So it's almost like they planned the mission knowing that he would join it
Um, they the droid like engages hyperdrive and he's like just fiddling with stuff or whatever
And uh the it turns to mando and it's just like everything is functioning fine
You can go down and then he just does it's like what yeah, he should not be leaving that guy's side at all
Well, he it's it doesn't work either way
He shouldn't be leaving baby yoda at the potential peril of all of these people downstairs
But he also shouldn't be leaving the droid in his cockpit. You know, it's just like you can't
It shouldn't be happening this way
I love how like we brought this up in the first episode
But satan just manages to open his weapon cache by pressing a button. It's like man. You need better security to do
Someone has done it by accident. Yeah
It's tough things should be designed to prevent entry from someone getting into it on purpose. Why are they locked?
You know, why isn't there a lock function?
Yeah, you'd think that after the first episode he'd be like, oh so he's like fiddling
It's not even because you'd have some kind of an argument if it was like a switch to open it
You'd be like, why does he have a switch to open it? But no, it's literally satan's fucking around and it opens up. He's like, oh
Oh, whoops. Uh, it's funny
Just that star wars girl is like what about it seems like she's like what about baby yoda?
You know, I love baby yoda too and I like mandalorian as well
um
There are a lot of problems. Okay, but baby yoda is nippy and all but like that's not the plot like this
I like baby yoda too. I'll say it
In order to be more than a lot of other things and that's why I think I like
Um mandalorian overall there are things that i'm enjoying disproportionately
That's it that i'm probably subjectively enjoying far more than the problems in the plot and and stuff
Um, and yeah, but there are some very significant problems
The problem for me, I guess and the reason why it bugs me so much is I was ready to like this space bounty hunters
It's like and star wars
Space bounty hunters bias in favor of the star wars will I really like it. They haven't killed that for me yet
They should have but it just frustrates me though
But like the most successful space bounty hunter thing isn't metroid. It isn't prey too
It's this show this really badly written show is frustrates me to no end
Um
So uh
We're extremely lucky that none of them have any idea
What is baby yoda nor the we kind of went over this earlier, but just
So fucking risky the idea that they see this creature like who knows what kind of information any of these could have a mando is just
He accidentally opens baby yoda's cabinet as well
Presss a button. It's like where are the locks on these things?
Well, I mean we already knew it wasn't locked because baby yoda's escaped that thing before and he does in this episode as well
Did it more precisely? That's right. This is where I think mando is such an irresponsible dad
I I pulled up my notes. I forgot we had notes about this
Um, my first tiki thingy is the merc friend says that mando's welcome back anytime
But then he only says he let him in because of his shit
Oh, he's welcome to come here, but he's not welcome to be on jobs unless he has a ship
There you go rags are fixed it. Yeah, and we were
And I guess this will pop up later. It certainly probably will but i'll just say here. What skill does knife girl provide?
They know the ship's full of droids. Why would you bring some of those?
Vibro daggers in this uh in the series and I guess the problem is um even then
She's the one how is a vibro dagger better than a blaster? I got her. Yeah
No, i'm not saying it is but they are still you can cut, you know through metal and stuff with them
And so they she can kill droids with them or if I actually i'm not sure
She has vibrate daggers. I don't think she kills me
His vibrate dagger against the droids in this episode i'm pretty sure
uh
Maybe like in the corridor fighting i'm pretty sure yeah, I think he has something in his left hand. It's like a knife I think
Like the the the vibro dagger seems like one of those
Like it's one of those things where if you're using it then something has gone horribly wrong
This isn't the same as a lightsaber because most of the time lightsabers are wielded by jedi as well
Which accentuate the use of a lightsaber not just on its own
But even if you were like, do you want to blaster our lightsaber in our corridor fight with robots? I'd be like probably a blaster
Yeah, i'm
Unless I can throw the lightsaber just like yeah
Throw all of your daggers
She goes collects them remember she collects them from the guy she throws it in
Oh
Easy
And yeah, they do have blue lights on them. So I assume the show is trying to say these daggers are super daggers space daggers
I like this comment. She hisses at people. That's her character
She's
I'll admit like i'm happy for bilbir's character to come back. Hopefully do something more with him. I'm okay with satan
He was fine, but she was annoying
Yeah, she was
She added nothing. She was just
dead weight
annoying
Um, that's that's the yeah, it's just I guess just an extension of that criticism was that it's insane that baby
Yoda's freely able to get out of that compartment and he leaves him alone with a droid on that ship
It just blows my mind and how do they not recognize exactly what it is?
Um, I guess you got some space for them to be like what a weird alien you have
To look after how weird but i'd just be like the boss knows about it
Surely the boss only knows that he has trouble with the guild rags. Nothing more nothing
No, I don't I don't I don't
Sharing the context that the daggers are more effective against um droids than
Blasters if it's in the games, then I not that sounds like a gameplay mechanic where melees are
Kills and things it's a way to probably balance it out. Right so that melee has a point
I I'll I'll be skeptical with that
Like no, I could see the point that vibro daggers can cut through
Juris still better than blasters can well wouldn't you be curious at that point that wouldn't just have a gun that fires bullets
That has whatever benefit vibro blades has yeah
They have ballistic weapons in star wars universe i'm pretty sure hang on now the in official canon now
Oh
And people use slow throwers
Yeah, well I what I mean is I remember that uh in republic commando. There was uh, some
Apparently it's uh in the books as well the uh, the vibro things. So yeah
Yeah, that's fair enough. It's just um, I don't really understand why I would ever use one in the star wars
You have to get up to them in melee well, she throws him
So if you have
Behind him and he uses a dagger against the droids in the fight scene
After he gets shot like six times which was which was a really bad way to do it
He was behind them and all they take is one headshot to kill we find that out later. So
He's kind of an idiot
This is the realization you have on really watching the whole series
Neither show off getting hit absolutely. Absolutely. That's the reason take him out by myself with my vibro dagger
He does the cool guy doesn't look at himself being stupid. That's what he does cool guy. He's cool. It's cool. It's a cool scene
anyway, um
so
When they get there zero announces that he's disabling onboard surveillance
I was like
Um probably should have done that before well, not even just that I was just like this surely presents issues
So you got human man in control room?
And uh, we're gonna give this maximum benefit of the doubt
Okay, when he says disabling onboard surveillance
He means he's looping all of the cameras to convince the guy in the control room that nothing is amiss
Um later on we can see the footage and it's not loop. Well, it's frozen or whatever, right?
It's like it's there is there they did something. I remember us noticing that there was effort like they're flickering as if to show like a shot
It's like every few seconds the background flickers as if to say they're repeating
But the problem is on all of these shots in his control room
There's no droids and it's like wouldn't you wonder why it is that you haven't found a single droid in any of your cameras?
for so long
Like how strange kind of like um think you know
There there are so many times when you should have figured out uh
Figured out like there was something wrong
I mean
It's risky as hell and we're just gonna have to assume that hey, just lucky you didn't notice you're like, okay
Mm-hmm, but then it gets really hard to justify this stuff when the mouse droid is destroyed when the other droids are destroyed
It's like how isn't everything alerted now?
When you detect your um your units getting blown up and stuff
Because I know if a gun went off in a prison, everybody would know about
yeah, and and but wasn't there a scene where you could see that uh
The robot and the ship was tracking all of the droids if he can do that
Surely the guy in the ship can do that
And he would notice when they're getting disabled as well, right?
I'm sorry say that again. Um, you know how uh in in the
Uh, like it in the ship the robot, uh can see
Where all of the the droids are it's like he's got a um, you know, oh, yeah
like a gps tracking thing tracker sort of thing, um, and
My immediate thought is like, okay
So the guy in the ship who is the guard has one of these two, right?
He should know where they all are surely
I would imagine so I would imagine that you get a little cross mark on any unit that gets destroyed
Like the rebels have that with the spaceships and the battles. Yeah, I mean that's exactly
There's no reason he wouldn't know that there are robots being destroyed
Like the whole which means it's all over because he would alert the republic
But for some reason he he chooses not to until he chooses not to alert them and die instead
so he has a like a
Little handheld alert thingy. Yes
It's odd that that there wouldn't be a button that he could just press on the console. That would also do
It's all that the robots can't do it upon being assaulted
As soon as that the whole tree all the above is true
What does it mean like most people love this episode like I find it very contentious to enjoy this because it's like why does anything work this way?
super
Like logistically it's so weak and it hurts my head
You know
This one really hurts my head
Yeah, bilbere is like really bad at shooting in that corridor scene and then you later is amazing at it. It's very weird
Um, the the assumption is automatically that he's bad at it in this moment so that mando can have his moment killing them all
Yeah, that he was fighting
Well, see and this this is another issue I take with this right mando is on his own throughout that whole fight
They just watch him. I think they're even like kind of smirking and then when it's over bilbere is like good job cleaning up your mess
And like I just have loads of question marks around my head like what?
He just saved all of your lives and this should be very red flag ish for mando
You should be like wow, you guys would totally have let me died there. Wouldn't you?
Hmm. Yeah
I mean after especially after satan man shoots the mouse droid for no reason. Yeah, that was also stupid. Yeah, that's um
What do those mouse droids do they will have no idea this is the thing
We just want to know I assume the only function they could even have is making sure everything is normal
Right. They just go around this if they detect anything out of usual they could report it
Mobile sentries in a way. Yeah, like I don't I haven't read any law books
I just assume there's the why else like if they don't serve any purpose, then why are they there?
Like I have one satan guy just shoots him for no reason
That alerts the other robots to come which should this should be the end of the mission
This should be you have shot the enemy sentry. The whole ship is now on a high alert for you
It is going to be nothing but gunfights and tight corridors
But it's it's super contrived that it is a lot of people saying they're cleaning droids
Uh-huh, who cares about that?
It's funny in in episode one. It's like they were showing the stormtroopers where to go that they were like guide. Oh, yeah. Yeah
Um, uh, that was like my impression of them in the earlier movies
The mouse droid is used for a source of communication
Um, yeah, well either way shooting it was a bad move because it alerts all the other droids
But that just makes you wonder why isn't it alerting the control room man who presses the button immediately all that other stuff like um
Yes, it's it's fine. Um really confusing throwaway line from zero. He says I am redirecting the alert away from your position
It's like so you're
Making it so that isn't a lot
Yeah, i was gonna say so for what we know that means that the control guy should be aware
He has no reason not to press the backup button
Secondly, uh, you're making it so that the security droids are all going to run to a different area of the ship where they think something's
Happening, right? That's what that means
Yeah, that's what it sounds like
Has he locked out the control panel man from being able to do anything about that?
And if you say yes, you'd be wrong because mando locks out zero from the control panel later in the episode
Whatever we need to happen at any given time everything just happens the way they needed to happen. Uh
Okay, so uh, it baffles me that they all leave the rifles from the droids that mando defeated
When uh satan
It's like satan has two pistols, but why not just pick up a rifle?
She doesn't even have a rifle. She could save her knives by having a right and it's uh
And the armor of the droids is resistant to the blaster fire, but they can be killed by their own rifles
So why the fuck they don't take the rifles with me
Is a stupid amateurish idiotic decision?
Like what happens with the next group? You're just gonna hope mando saves you again
And also if if their armor is resistant to blasters
It'd probably be a good idea to put the cpus of the robots inside of the torso instead of the head
Which can be destroyed by blasters
Pretty stupid actually this is what makes me wonder again
If the new fledgling rebellion or the new republic
Has the money to throw around to give blaster proof armor to robots guarding prisoners
How come everyone doesn't wear arm? How could nobody wear a armor? How come jedi don't wear it?
Question that's that's one of the pet peeves i've had like
If you can make effective army out of something so readily available as durasteel, which they seemingly use to make everything
Yeah
IG 88 takes like a shit ton of blasts to its chest and they just block it. Yeah. Yeah, exactly exactly
Why why aren't why isn't everything built with this? Why don't stormtroopers use this armor?
Why don't yeah everybody good questions. Very good questions. It's nuts. Um, but yeah, they they clearly
Um the the the all the droids all the security droids clearly have rifles that will destroy security droids
They do not take them. They just leave them on the ground
Insanely stupid and makes me think these people are amateurs because if that was me
And if I had any training and if I wanted to live I would be like, oh, this is clearly a better weapon for the scenario
I'm taking one
So you might is saying that mouse droids are used for delivery and maintenance purposes. Um, uh
What could they deliver?
It wouldn't it wouldn't it wouldn't matter
We're specifically just talking about whether or not they deliver and they do in this categorically so we know they do
Or at least they do in this
The mouse droid could have been replaced by any other kind of robot. Really?
I'm still like
I maintain their crap delivery droids because I agree. What can they carry like delivery?
You're kidding me. They drag it along like a well, maybe they'll drag along a small mcdonald's bill
Oh
Maybe there's a lot of space torque in those little mouse droids and they can pull a big old
Floating platform that floats fuck. Never mind
You think that you just have like robot shelves moving around but
What was control man doing before they got in there he's just sitting down like oh no they got in
It's like could you lock down the control room?
They could have had a small scene where he was like, I don't know
watching questionable things
Like distracting himself, you know, he's pointing at the monitor
He was he was looking at the security droid in five minutes
He was watching a movie and he was asleep or something and he just hasn't been paying attention
The fact that he doesn't immediately fire on them as soon as the door opens
He's got the jump on them by the way somehow because they didn't think he would be here
I don't know why they wouldn't know I don't see how that wouldn't be information
They would have at this point with the fully hacking into everything, you know
Listen, it's not established in star wars that you could scan for life forms at a distance. Oh
But also you would expect that even if it wasn't a person you'd expect robots or some pilot
Remember mando can like scan shit through walls and he just never uses it
Yeah, what the well, that's because he doesn't have a special gun with him. Oh
He has decided not to take that insanely valuable piece of technology with it
Scope is detachable and his helmet does this shit as well, but okay
Yeah
Just on the matter of the guns
What if the guns are only imprinted to be able to be used by the droids from an identification chip or some bull crap?
I don't know that that could answer that. Um, doesn't mando use it on the droid in this episode?
Yeah, mando uses on the droid. That's how they know it. Oh, well, there you go. That
And even in the even in the prequels, um, they can take the droids off of the battle droids and use them
Take the arms off. I'm sorry. They can take the guns the the blasters off the battle droids and you
Uh
Consistent well booting would be nice
So, yeah, it's just um, I guess i'm trying to just find the next
I've got a note here that was just like why didn't they shoot him when he faces their back to them?
I'm trying to find where that happens
But I think they start circling him and he's only aiming at one person and it's just like damn you kind of you're screwed now
Someone's just gonna have to eat the back of the head you've done
Yeah, like they're
Like I get the I
It's weird like I can see
Obviously if they wanted to kill him easily they'd have no problem at all
Mando's the only one who doesn't want to if they shoot it. Yeah, I guess they're worried that if they shoot him like he'll
His finger will fall on the button or when he falls the button will get pressed. Well, no, so right so scenario
They're all surrounding him. They're all laughing because he's he's fucked
He puts his gun on mando someone that these guys don't even care if he dies and bilbir is behind him
Who wears armor?
Well, not only does mando wear armor. They don't care if he dies
So like this guy is like i'm gonna shoot mando potentially if you attack me bilbir's behind him. It's like just attack him
He's done. It's over
But he's like no, I will screw with him
And the funny thing is like bilbir comes across as very confident in this scene
Like, uh, this is this guy's not getting out of here. We're good. He pulls out that little device and then bilbir's like hey
Fuck yeah
Just like oh, all right
Now we're out of control
All they have to say it's somewhere
All they have to say is if you press that button we have no reason to keep you alive anymore
Just keep that in mind. Well, that's which is why this drama sucks because that's the assumed scenario here
It's a standoff you shoot me this button gets pushed
But if I push this button you will shoot me standoff and then they're all arguing about what to do
And the stupid lady just kills him and he pushes the button. It's like congratulations
That was the whole point of this standoff you just ended that's the only person that's the only thing that she does
Kills is the guy which fucks up the whole mission. Well, you say that like she doesn't do anything else in this episode
She does some laughing and weird faces
I just want to say while we froze on the the you know
Republican guy that guy so two things
Look, I like that is wearing the same helmet as what kind of what we saw in episode one
But the second thing is that is like the most unmost impractical helmet design
That's a very silly helmet. What if you have to look at a computer monitor that's above you which there are plenty all from his seated position
It looks like a really shitty. It's a crap helmet design. It looks like a shitty salad
I'm surprised he's got it all like you think you wouldn't even have it on most of the time with the controller
Sorry, this is the way i'm wearing that shit when you were watching
I was like that looks like a shitty with the chin strap on it like i'm not wearing that
Like what is it supposed to do? He was wearing that before anyone even came in and yeah
Like you're alone on this mission
Transporting prisoners. It's probably just it's probably statistically one of the safest job that there is you're just like
If I was writing this like that device would have been pulled out immediately not like halfway through the standoff
It doesn't even make sense. It's just like by the way guys. I have this device. You're like what? Oh
Let's remember he should have pressed the button ages ago for several reasons
But he's just now not only having not pressed it. He is now pulling it out
Um
Yeah, and it's funny as well because mando's like calm down put the guns down no one's gonna die
You're gonna get it out of this fine daven because he knows his name. He has him tell him and then bilbo just goes
No, you won't it's like
Why would you say that?
Negotiation skills
I feel like that was the exact wrong thing to say
Yeah, pretty much the worst possible thing that could have been said to a guy
Um, and i'm sick of seeing blasters that don't have sights on them. Like how do you shoot it?
This bugs me you hope it explains why stormtroopers suck
Aiming from the hip. Okay
Can be done bugs me about like bill burr's character too is like you have two
Blasters you're not aiming down the sights of them. You don't have any
uh, any like heads up display
That is telling you where the blasters are pointed a like from halo or anything. You're just like
guessing
But hang on can't people shoot instinctively even with handguns very short
You can from the short
You don't you it's almost like you point with it. You don't aim with it. But yeah when you when you go and
um
Like when I took my concealed carry classes
That was one of the things they had us do was don't look down the sights just like point and shoot
um
But it only works for really short distances
Well handguns aren't particularly accurate along distances anyway have it well, I mean if it's the difference so first off
You you could get pretty good with them, especially if your weapon is pistols
But you are going to be insanely more accurate using sights than just pointing at things
Yeah, like it's not even close
Like if you if you want to hit anything with a pistol, you're unless it's like in like we're talking right in front of you
You could maybe point at it
Like if it's right in front of you
But if you want to hit anything with a pistol you're going to be using your sights
But this gun here clearly has no front sight and it just fucking bugs me. It takes me out of the universe
That's the shit that I hate
Um, well, I i'm the same with sword so I can't I can't um, you know
These are just like i'm listing what I what I have in terms of notes
So if anyone else wants to say anything chronologically go for it, but I was going to skip ahead now too
Apparently you can just pull the arm off a droid
Well, he pulls the head off of the other one with the wire, you know, I would I can believe the wire more
Yeah
I'd like to know how physically strong mandalorian is
Because like they actually show that what cara dune is like has some measure of superhuman strength from some type of enhancement
Um, and then mandalorian is actually going toe-to-toe with her in an arm. So yeah, she laid the beat down. What are you I thought like
Isn't she just a shock trooper?
Really? I thought it was implied like quill said something that you know, like
Like what are you saying? No, um Yoda isn't being genetically enhanced
But then he looks at characters like you you look like you've come out of some kind of
I don't know some farm or something like that. I thought that was
I thought that was implying that she might have some type of genetic enhancement
Correct me if i'm wrong, but I was getting I never got that impression. I just figured she was a strong man
I was assuming just from what she had shown like, you know
One punch knocking mandalorian off his feet head first down that that was a superhuman feat
And so I was just kind of taking her actually has superhuman some type of enhanced strength
um
No, um plus this is this is a robot that is no doubt built for purpose
To the yeah, he plated it unless he has armor very high superhuman strength
He shouldn't be at a rip it which he doesn't I don't think the show is established
He has super gonna get pedantic here
But I don't think that blaster could actually fit through where he pulls it because one shot
He's got half of it through and the next shot is fully through
I think it's because the handle and the the back part of the pistol wouldn't have fit through that hole
At least from what I could they just cut to it being further right? I was like, hmm sneaky
I'm just saying maybe not maybe whatever i'll let that one go. Yeah, just give it a good pull and the arm comes right off
And obviously escapes and and it's uh, so let's just get everything straight here because uh, this is an extreme contrivance
To the backs of degree you got this shit
There's even what position there's even holes in the door period. Yeah, that's actually uh pretty useful
insanely
Insanely stupid. Well, hang on
Um prison bars have like gaps in between so
I think that in a spaceship like this. Yeah, but these are clearly designed
Like what they're they're circular and they clearly have their and they're not windows. They're not view. They are open holes
But for us we just make a bunch of bars to keep them in
I mean
Do you think it would clearly be better to have it be completely closed up where they can't spit or throw anything through or reach
and grab you
Like that it would obviously be i'm thinking i'm trying to think of frozen cots I think I
Yeah, because if um oxygen was ever decompressed in the hallway
It would be useful to be able to seal off the doors to keep air in the prison cells. So yeah, um
It appears to be a design decision
Whereas prison bars that we have are clearly one of practicality
And mass producing iron bars and stuff just for for like production purposes. These are clearly designed with the holes
um
Well, I was more going for right so you think of uh, a map a whole map of the prison you've got position a is where
Their ship arrives position b is the control room position c is this prison cell
They drop him in this prison cell
And then all they have to do is go back to position a and for the entire rest of the episode
They managed to not make it there until he's not only luckily had a droid walk past
Destroy it and take its key to get out. He's gone to the control room. He locks out a zero
He puts the whole place in lockdown so that all doors start closing except for a pathway to the exit
And he manages to fight and kill or fight and capture all of the enemies except the guy who got out of the prison cell
And he catches up with him the moment he reaches position a
That timeline makes no sense at all
I'm sorry slight tangent and the still that you have on the um, um
The stream
Is that scope on backwards?
Uh, I think that's just a I think I I
Could just be a design choice. Do you mean because it's tapering? It's a space scope?
Yeah, it's the uh paper out on the other side of his face. It's inward
Yeah, i'm gonna look at it, but I think they just they just took the scope and they flipped it around because space
That makes it look cool
You know like this looks cooler it's like no that looks wrong. That's not how no
Well, I don't know they could have they could make scopes differently in star wars
Yeah, no, I don't mind. I don't really care what I highlighted was way worse and I was gonna have forgotten about it
I know
Because they're like, oh it doesn't make sense. But look at reverse it dude. Did everybody hear what I said, though?
Please say again because no
How can how is he strong enough to rip the arm off of one of these things?
We already talked about I know it's stupid. Fuck you rags. He didn't listen to any of it
Yes, I did. I did listen to it
What did you say? Chad, did you hear what I said?
About the convenience of you know, I was I was honestly and sincerely trying to but rags just distracted me
And you know his whole rant about the scope. I just erased it from my memory. I'm sorry. I can't I like it's all rags
Okay, all right here goes again, so
Think of the whole prison ship mapped out
Position a is where the ship lands and everyone gets out position b is the control room position c is this prison cell
Our villains lock mando in position c and they head to position a
somehow
purple man manages to only get to position a after mando has
Defeated a droid that happened pi which is very fucking lucky to have done it so quickly
Uh gotten key gotten out gotten to the control room locked out zero
Lock down the room so that people can't escape unless they're going directly to point a which is precisely where all of our heroes
Villains want to do and then mando knocks out each of them one by one
In specific fights with satan actually having a decently long brawl
And in this time he then manages to get to point a at the same time that purple alien man does
Did purple alien man know where it was going
He was with uh, bill beer was with him. So there's no reason why he wouldn't have directed him
Otherwise, all we have is he must have been lost
It's like, okay
I got lost
Um, the time in this episode is very odd, especially because the button was pressed
Theoretically like two minutes before they got to this prison cell
And it was a 10 minute limit
and it's
like actually
Almost I think like 18 minutes in episode time until the republic show up and we're obviously seeing a montage
We're not seeing the actual in real time
So that's just borked as well because they say 10 as far as I remember
Gotta have a montage
It's very very bad structure
Yeah, they're playing they're playing fast and loose without time functions. They just don't want you to think about it
Um
Yeah, also lucky the mando was even having access to a droid wouldn't zero just shut down all the droids at this point
Especially if there's no one in the control room
Does he have he has the power to shut down all the
Can he do that?
Well, I don't why would they why wouldn't the person who's in control of the whole ship not have the ability to do something with the droids?
for example
Directing them away from the prison cell they're trying to get to
I don't know. Maybe that's behind several layers more of a
Boy, didn't he already do it?
Theoretically he said he's gonna set the alert somewhere else couldn't he can at least distract droids
But I don't see why he wouldn't have absolute power once they got rid of the control room guy
You would think that all the droids would be hooked up to the ship's signal or there'd be some control unit
Like the battle droids for instance
I would just assume that they have some kind of overriding power that can actually shut down the droids in case something goes wrong
It seems like a
Really obvious safety security sort of thing just in case they need to shut the droids down they can do it
So you don't have killer droids on the loose
And of course, I don't see how mando can lock out zero
I don't
He just does and it's like, okay
Because mando's competence level is directly
Correlating with what he needs to do at any given moment
Why does zero try to do nothing to help the entire team when everything is dependent on getting this bounty instead?
He goes on a baby hunting mission
Because he has to kill that baby. Why and that leads me to my next question
Why does he want to kill the baby so much because he's a bad robot man, and he kills the baby
He's a killer baby robot. Just like he likes to kill babies baby killer. It's so weird
This is like he just randomly forgets everything he's supposed to do with this episode to go hunt a baby
Okay, give me a second. I gotta use a loo. I'll be right back
Don't fall in
How's my contribution
Yeah, I just don't get why everybody wasn't rushing to the exit because uh
They're concerned with defeating mando and it's like you realize if you leave with his ship he's defeated
Yep, oh
This is true
Oh, look at baby yoda
It's just funny that mando has control over locking up the ship as well
And he doesn't lock the ability to get to his ship if you know what I mean
Yeah, sorry, i'm getting distracted you have baby yoda on the screen it's okay. Yeah, this is the thing
I'm trying to i'm trying to get all these criticisms out. This episode is really bad
Um
It's amazing how much baby yoda can like redeem it
It's like it's a crap episode it's a quick throw baby yoda on the screen
Um, why does bill burr think he could take on mando like what in the world makes him think that's a possibility
Considering he has the best guard armor as well
Yeah, the armors should make him pause but you know, they're arrogant people they're things he could take him off
Yeah, I guess that one's not beyond reason for me
I just when you're given the option of
You've got the point of the job, which means you'll get paid you'll probably get paid more
Potentially because the shares are going to go down based on all the other people that didn't make it to the ship like bill burr
And purple dude seemed to they got separated
Um and your choice is go and hunt mando for extra money
while the republic are on their way and they're going to be here in like five minutes or leave with your bounty and
guarantee safety and also guarantee the condemnation of
Mando like he's going to get captured by the republic. So
Not bad. Yeah, also satan like picks up his fucking communicator and it makes noises. He just throws it
It's so weird, I don't even know why this scene is in this because there's no point where
If only he had communication something would have happened. So I just see this as just like a weird like oh annoying noises
Okay
Get it because he's an angry satan but
It's curious how baby yoda evades the droid I guess because like he's like he's afraid of and recognizes it as a threat
It's like how how would he just it's just a droid looking around. What point are we on?
um
satan threw his communicator away because it made funny noises
Oh
Just like he like he like how he shot that mouse droid
Yeah, he's it's consistent. He makes weird decisions. Hey
I think we could make an argument that the horn guy is mentally disabled in some way. All right
Carry him around for the muscle. Maybe I I guess but I feel like why can't the robot do that?
I feel like a robot would be there for muscle
probably but
You wonder what each of these people bring to the table muscles not even that relevant to this mission, is it?
No true like he was carrying things that are on the um station but in the mission itself things we don't see again
Okay
Just so you know about baby yoda, why would he be hiding?
You know, I think it would be cool if baby yoda is actually far more I guess
um
mentally developed
He would have to be because for some reason baby yoda is cool with good guys and he's not cool with bad guys
And it's like how does baby yoda know the difference? It's like he just does. Yeah, of course. It's a feeling
Would it be like I still reckon it would have been fun
I think it's been it's been it's been too far to be able to play on it now
That later in the series baby yoda is like just comes out and starts speaking to me and is like, yeah
We're in a bit of a tough spot. Yeah, I've been testing you the whole time homie
You've done pretty good. I'll say that
Inconsistent parent
How would you sleep at night if you knew that I was I would have died if not for the force you ass
How many thousand I had to save myself there's you know so far
So, uh satan just goes back to the control room I guess because he he figures mando might be there I don't know
He just goes there and um, unfortunately for him mando is waiting for him and shoots him in the back of the head
With his gun killing him instantly
Oh, wait, that doesn't happen does it someone else happens?
Sorry, I had a dream where I was watching the show
Of a better one of those infinite universes where the show was good. Oh, that was an incompetent fucking buffoon
mando attempts to hang this man
From above him
By shooting his thing through. I just it just I remember every time I see it
What in the world was your why you have a gun like
17 different ways. This is
Ridiculous dude just pulls it right through
How do you shoot the grappling hook through the grates and get it to wrap around his neck?
That's an impressive shot. But why are you trying to achieve this?
He's good with the grappling hook so good. He can manipulate the grappling hook to change directions
It is bizarre that he just doesn't shoot it and then he immediately uses his hyper special
worthwhile ammo
Which don't kill this guy for some reason they all miss they don't just instantly kill this guy
They all miss even though aren't they like don't they auto track?
Yeah, they they the home didn't on the last time he used those so it doesn't matter if he can't aim them
He doesn't need to yeah
Bizarre like but uh, yeah
Then there's this really weird moment i'm trying to let me i'll get it up so I don't copyright myself
I just want to get to it
Yeah, so look at this shot mando is pulled but that end to his pistol looks a bit wonky
But whatever he pulls both of his pistols onto the head of satan and he doesn't fire
In fact, he doesn't even have his finger on the trigger
Well, he wants to make sure that he's got his he's it's safe. That's gun safety
Keep your finger off the trigger until you're ready to fire
But right
But he doesn't really want to kill him, but he wants to
Look at this shot. It's like oh he's dead, but this is like now he pushes him down. It's like, oh, okay
I got nothing
Yeah, they do they they do show the shots firing. It's just that uh, it's too late at that point. It's pretty indefensible this
sequence
um
Yeah, one of my notes just says why the fuck did mando try to hang satan?
I don't know. Like what what are you supposed to make of this? It's just such a weird
uh
That tries to burn satan
It's weird that the way he finishes him off with the blast doors like he survived that it managed to chop off his horns
But he survived it. It's like yeah, that didn't crush his head
I don't understand the logistics of how it could even not have killed him
His head was where the the doors closed it had to be
I just don't know that there's enough space for him to simultaneously exist with the blast doors
That's what yeah, i'm trying to like find where's the where is the shot of that?
Oh, yeah, here we go
It's so odd
The way he's got he's like got his head as well you'd think that um
Um
Yeah, he's just fucked that's gonna try if if those doors can close
He's dead
Oh, you know what I need to get the shot
Yeah, see he's dead he's definitely dead look at how close the doors are to the other doors
That would need to be a good 20 centimeters of space for that to for him to be alive
It's the width of his head
Do you think that maybe they they filmed it in such a way that all of these characters could have died
But they committed to keeping them alive because they realized that they wanted them for season two. Yeah
Hang on. Do we actually see the doors shut?
Well, by the way one of his orange horns is like in front of the door
Yeah, like if it manages to chop off those horns, that means his head is gone. His head has been sliced mortal combat style
He's just squished it's been smushed not only his head not only his head but his torso because your torso kind of sticks out a bit
Yeah, if you're standing up straight, he's going yeah, he's got a bit of a gut. So that shot doesn't work
He's he's sliced it off
That head should have popped like a grape
Yeah, this is uh
Um
No
Oh, yeah, so next up is bilver just like shows that he's actually really skilled
Oh, did he decide to do that this time? Yeah, he just decided it here we go
He goes boom boom boom boom. Watch this, right? So one droid i'm a i'm a 30 21 one droid has just realized the bilber exists
It's like whoa
Bilbo one shot to the head and it's down
Like guys you've made these things look partially threatening before but if it's that easy like geez
Why didn't he do that before?
Yeah, the inconsistency of how protective the plating on droids and armor in general
Like I
If they want to say that a headshot will destroy it like because it's got it's weaker there for some inexplicable reason
For it, which is already its own problem. But if we grant that idiotic design flaw
then
Like why didn't they just shoot it all in the head before?
Because they were aiming for the body but they clearly missed and those other ones which is weird
It's it's a really funny thing that while satan fight is happening. Um
There's i'm gonna cover it up sucks. I know when it first happens
but basically there's there's a grunting and noises obviously and uh, there's a shot where alien girl can hear them grunting like
Implication being that they're several meters away. She starts running toward the noise we continue with the fight
And by the time the fight is over which takes a while, by the way, she's just not caught up
She doesn't know where they are. It's like how did you hear them?
What?
And you you could argue be like no maybe it's coming through his communication device like no he threw that away
First she thought it was an attack and she ran then she realized oh, no
They're just having very familiar relations and they decide to leave them to it
Makes total sense. He's in the middle of fight and she's
He's thrown across the floor and it's like oh my god. Will mando make it?
and then
Yeah, they're getting it on so she'll leave it to him
She hears it and she's like, oh my god, but yeah, we don't see her again until mando has his uh one-on-one with her anyway
um
Well, I mean we don't know how this horn guy mates do we so
uh
I like the
mando
Manages to literally disappear while approaching bilbo
Yeah
It's like between the flashes. He legitimately disappears. It's like oh, it's so cool. It's like
nonsense
You can't actually do that
and um
I don't know. I don't know what why
Like it's just what could you possibly answer in terms of how that's even happening like he's
Disappearing why not just have him walking towards him and he's just less visible in the dark instead of having him
Legitimately disappear even when there's light like he physically isn't there anymore
He disappears
Harry Potter is himself away
Uh
Okay
Um, yeah zero just doesn't shoot the gun when aiming at yoda he like aims for good
A few seconds and it's like why?
He's like a droid. Wouldn't he be pretty definitive about this?
Like i'm hunting this baby i'm going to shoot it instead he aims his gun for a decent chunk of time because he's like
I'm not sure about it yet. He's like what what is I just don't get any of this. What why why any of it?
Is it just to make us go? Oh my god, baby. Yoda don't die
Like yeah, it's hard to
Figure it out, but maybe it was just for the suspense to like someone protect baby yoda
How does um, I guess I was watching the bilber thing again with disappearing mando man, how does mando get the door to open?
If he's behind bilber
I maybe put it on an auto release, uh from the control room within one minute
He was like set to release in one minute to distract bilber
Wow, and bilber was right there in front of it when it yeah, man lifted up
I mean mando's incredibly competent. You probably didn't know that
Wow, uh, I didn't uh, wow, that's crazy. Good thing that door opened I guess
Um, all right, and yeah lucky mando turned up when he did because that was literally any longer and baby ought to be dead
Uh-oh, man. It was really waiting for that dramatic. Yeah, like literally a couple more seconds
It's just you know, it'd be the curve your enthusiasm music
I mean you'd think I would have shot him while he was crawling up the ladder
Or something. Oh, yeah, but i'm surprised that zero didn't hear that or recognize that he's a droid
You'd think he'd be like, oh something's coming up
My sensors are clearly not to mention hearing the discussion between mando and purple alien man. You'd think
But no
Um
So and then of course lucky the republic don't turn up at any point until
Is preferable to the plot which is way more than 10 minutes
Wait, oh, yeah
Like I said, we see a montage of events and we we're still like 18 minute clocking in so it's just like
Imagine how long it actually was and that brings us to what is the most embarrassing moment of this whole episode. I would say
Um
so mando's plan is to drop off the um
The tracker for the republic into this outpost so that the republic will go there instead
Which in and of itself if you understand it to simply mean that the republic will come here
like that could you know
You don't exactly know what will happen
Is like i'm not making a character judgment, I guess from mando's perspective that could mean a lot of things
It's like that'll uh, that'll screw up their ability to maybe operate basically
Basically, the cops are coming the space cop which is fine because especially because they betrayed him so he's like, okay
I'm fine with that. So they turn up and now bear in mind
They turn up and seconds after mando is heading right for them and they're like, whoa
You'd think the the their justification for shooting anything is that it can attack them. That's what they say
They're launching an attack ship. So a ship with the ability to attack I assume is the requirement because
Mando's got big old blasters on his they don't mind him. They let him go
Yeah, they don't care about him. They're fine. Um, I mean with the pacing though
They don't have too much time to get their wings up, but they ignore him
They have to avoid him
Right that he's flying into them and they have to fly away like dodge him, but they don't care about him
I'm i'm just not gonna they don't turn around they don't try to hail the ship
Like the thing is the reality is this scene could have worked better instantly if mando's ship was behind theirs
That's all they needed to do his ship was behind theirs when they came in
And then he escapes instead. They have to actually avoid him and they're like, whoa
And um, they don't seem to care and they instead conclude
So let's get into the pov of the republic right now
We have this prison ship out there and it's alerted us that something's gone wrong
That's the only reason they ever alert that and it's taken us now to this weird outpost. That's strange
Um, let's destroy it
Yeah, we don't know who's on it we don't know anything about
Oh, they're launching a ship that has guns on it destroy the entire station
It's like you have no idea why that's happening. Also, isn't your dude on there the one who activated the signal?
Yeah
Nothing makes sense in this scene
Um
Yeah, I guess mando is cool with all the people getting killed at that point
Yeah, including potentially, you know innocents who are just passing through it seemed to just be an outpost
It didn't seem to be like evil incorporated the central hq. It was just like oh wow
And someone said I mean he isn't shooting at them neither was the attack ship they destroyed it anyway
I say quote unquote attack ship. That's just how they describe it. They're like it's they're launching an attack ship
It's like okay
And it's clear that the riders are trying to justify it with the launching of the attack ship but guns on ships aren't exactly uncommon
In star wars they have guns on their ships
Does that mean people should shoot them? I mean why wouldn't why wouldn't any ship in the star wars universe have guns on it?
Considering how many dangerous things are out there
You'd be pretty foolish to buy a ship without guns and I find it intensely amusing that they sent 3x wings
When we could easily like it seems like this outpost probably does have the ability to actually counter 3x wings
Well that could have actually helped save this scene if the gunship they launch actually fires on the x-wing
And then the the space station starts to fire on them
And then the the x-wings are forced to fight back and the x-wings prevail maybe by the skin of their teeth
It might have to have to tough
And then that would have fixed it all it's like
That's the problem. They don't know anything about this space
They shoot
They shoot the shit out of the station before they can even shoot the attack ship. This is ridiculous
But if they actually got fired on by the space station and their ship that was launched that would justify the x-wings blowing it up
That's my point. Well, what if their guy's on there? Guess he's dead. Yep. Sorry, mate
Sorry you yeah
Well, what they really fucked up with was they only need to destroy the attack ship and then show them maybe docking
Or not even that we can just assume it
But instead they show us this wide shot where they continue to shoot the station
It's like yeah. Oh my god. Sorry everyone else on that ship all the welders and just people walking around
I guess you're fucking dead
This thanks. Thanks republic. Yeah, that that that little image right there that just subs up with stupid
If mando turns back it's like what
Don't don't kill me
Yeah, he turns around and he's just like what are you doing?
You psychos
And yeah, man, like let's just put it this way if this is all canon like I am not a fan of the new republic
Yeah
Well, I mean the sequels i'm not a fan of the new republic
Oh, yeah. Well, they're um, they're impotent in the new video. That's their problem in this they're malicious
Yeah
You might have one of our guys. See you
Blowing them all up
It becomes mandalorian's greatest kind of dark, you know failures like what was the worst thing you ever did?
I accidentally got a space station destroyed by the republic
Waking up in a cold sweat with his helmet on naturally
I'm sorry. I didn't mean it. I didn't know that would shoot
On top of his life, so yeah, that's that's episode six
So, what do you I mean it's hard to remember because obviously we did the other episodes so long ago as in the faf episode
But uh, how does that rank for everybody in terms of the season that episode?
I would probably as it stands my ranking would be four still at the bottom. Uh, then five
Five was really stupid. I think as well. I think this is worse than five. I think this is worse than five
Yeah, I think it is
Especially with that ending man that caps it off that like five is bad. But this is like
Every like every scene it's almost it seems like there's just something that isn't right
Yeah, but I feel like that was the same thing that was happening with five
I feel like you guys might be forgetting how bad five was
He destroyed the fog because he memorized the location despite the fact that yeah
I completely agree that it's bad. I completely agree. It's bad. Yeah, that's dumb. Wait, that was six
I can no that was five. No, that was six
No, no, no, no. This is six. That was five. Oh, sorry. I've loaded up seven. So I'm reading it seven. No
Oh, wait, I made I made a mistake. I shouldn't admit to it. No, I was right. It was
You have npq or whatever it's called
but
At least with the fob at least the the guy that the the junior bounty hunter guy breaking the fob
So I guess in his mind established. Yeah now i'm not gonna go to keep me
I'm not going that route. I'm literally just gonna say sure it still doesn't match up to six's flisms
There's so many so many flisms for six. Nothing's making sense. Their entire plan is insane
Their motivations of characters are insane. The results are insane. They ruined the republic by the end. Mando's an idiot throughout most of it
I guess if we look at it like that, then it'll probably be four then six because I still think four is the worst one
Yeah, I agree with that
Four then seven and eight or worse than six. Well, we're gonna find out we'll do this at the end of seven and seven as well
Eight eight will be the interesting one. I'm not sure about seven but eight
Yeah, it's pretty bad. I'm sure yeah, it's bad. It's pretty fucking horrible
Yeah
All right, well, I guess we'll kick on
Episode seven, uh
Seven I guess we'll open with i'm trying to see if um
You're gonna take oh, yeah
If there's anything else you want to say about six obviously by wings x-wings ignore razor crest destroy the station
Even though they know the tracking beacon's there. They don't know who's on the station
They're not external cannons on the station. They blow up the attack ship and then proceed to destroy the station to question desk
Anybody anybody could have activated the beacon
All right, well, it was seven everybody remove it right along
Um, let me grab a let me grab a drink another drink no problem. Uh, so I figured we can open with um
he's like
Mando do do what I want you to do with with this and we can call it even from uh, karl weathers
I always found that to be a bit like
Call it even why would mando ever believe that that's how you feel with what he did?
Yeah, he like destroyed the guild in your area. He nearly killed you
Okay. Yeah, sorry the bounty hunter guild. Yeah, and so like what I what I guess i'm putting forward is just like
He does address that he can't really trust him in this episode
But it just blows my mind and the whole reason is he's like he's got no choice
But i'm just like what was your plaid up to this point mando like?
Are we on seven? Could you start in seven? Yeah. Yeah, just we're in a situation now where mando is firmly established
Yeah, i'm not escaping these bounty hunters, which is something we knew from the get go
I don't know why that came up so late
And uh karl weathers is like i'm offering you this thing that is really hard to trust considering what he did to karl weathers
But his motivation is like well, I I got no other choice and i'm as a viewer
I'm just like what was your plan?
Were you just like hoping you would survive and that was it because you felt bad about a baby
My first bullet point here is that?
Mando has no reason to trust karl. He would still have to deal with that's karl weathers
You would still have to deal with the empire wanting baby yoda even if this plan went perfectly smoothly that's
Yeah, i've got a point for that later
That's because they say that if they kill the imp meaning of vena hertzog, then it'll be over and it's like
Why would you think that? Yeah, like that's clearly not true at all. In fact, even after he dies spoilers
That doesn't happen. Yeah, it literally doesn't happen
Yeah, like that's a thing that doesn't happen. I don't know why they've concluded that it's like clearly
It was just this old dude that wanted baby yoda. That was it. It's like no
No, that's not I don't know which is why
I think that this season plot line as a quick fix should have been that he establishes immediately on episode three exit
He's like first thing we got to saw out was this fob
We've got to get it deactivated or at least get the signal away from baby yoda
How do we do that?
And you can make the missions relate to it
like we need to go to this planet because there's a there's a black market bounty dealer that can
You know muzzle the signal or something like that cool and while he goes to that planet
He's got to do a job to get access to this thing, you know
It's weird that you would bring that up as the thing that they should do
Like the insanely important thing that they should do that anybody would want to do
But they don't even mention getting rid of it as if it's not even a thing that's possible in the universe
It's not even suggested. No, it's just you're fucked. If you've been attached to fob the fob has been attached to you
You're finished. It's over
That doesn't have implications i'm sure
uh
So, uh, yeah, they established there's really hard to kill we're in a head fog he gets fucking shot through a wall
Oh, wait are we
No, i'm not i'm not they establish early on in the episode that he's really hard to kill and i'm just skipping forward to how
He dies which is getting shot through a wall
But weren't they just saying that in the context that he has guards around him?
Not that well, what i'm trying to point out is that this guy shouldn't be that hard to kill
No, one's really that hard to kill in star wars. Let's be honest outside of maybe jedi and sith
Yeah, it's not the killing them. It's the getting you away with it part. Yeah
I don't believe for a second that mando would believe that uh car weather's group of guild members couldn't have pulled this assassination off
Yeah, is there any there's no reason why he's uniquely difficult to kill?
Yeah, I mean I was hanging out in the diner and if you just need occasion
Yeah, I was I was about to say maybe he thinks the guild members are insanely incontinent
But then I remember who was guarding the dog and it was like well
It's kind of like a special olympics on this planet honestly
So
Just small nitpick I guess but uh in the middle of like car's fight with other guy
She's like trying to stand away from him with her rope and he's trying to pull on the rope to get her to come to
Him instead of just walking towards her
I don't understand. Yeah, I don't understand the uh lightning rope and how much it would if like
Yeah, it's very hard to close so that they have to fight
I mean there's some there's some
It's like a cool little modifier for a fight. I guess it's just this one moment where
He's trying to pull on it to get her to come to him and she's like resisting it to a degree
It's like why not just walk toward her out of the stand?
What's the point?
It does seem like it would reserve a lot of energy to just take a few steps instead of trying to pull a large woman towards you
Who's especially
If he's pulled a decent a small amount of it sure but a decent amount if you let go of it while she's resisting
She would fall over right? It's like try that
Actually shortens as they get closer it's weird
So it's like a tether like maybe there's some pull there, but they're attracting each other
Um, it'd be niftier if they were like magnets or something
You know where so this they were attracted to one another
I think it's either two or three references to having cara hide her tattoos in this episode and as
I think is one of the funniest ones is that she has a rebel tattoo on your eye that or just under her eye that she
Doesn't hide at all
And they want to prevent the enemies from knowing that she's a part of a rebel shock trooper selection because that's what a tattoo in
Her arm would tell them so she covers up the weird non-descript ones in her arm
But the actual fucking tattoo the icon of the rebel alliance on her face. They don't even mention
I think that's that's so bad that I think that must be like an oversight of the people who made the show
So bad and then you wonder how did they forget it's on her face and also they had to do the makeup that day
You know, yeah
Well, maybe they were maybe they were just thinking that one is an identify of someone who likes the uh, you know rebel
To fix this you have you have a stone trooper go is that a rebel symbol and then she would have to have some kind of
excuse like
Oh, it's ironic. Yeah, it's a reminder for me of how much I hate them that I would tattoo
Well, it's like the people who tattoo, you know, fuck trump on their on their arm, it's just like yeah, I guess, you know
But even in there's this would be like the word trump on your arm without the
Before we even get that far i'm just interested like when was the practice of tattooing someone's rank happen
Well come about like I thought that was just something you would wear on your uniform
Not a tattoo that's permanently imprinted
She was really into the club really that's that that's a that's a bit of an odd way
Wait, is it do we know what's the rank or is it just like a is it some symbol of support that we know?
No, they can literally identify her as a dropper. Like I know that identifies her as a type of troop a dropper specifically
But people get tattoos of like marine corps and stuff
And that's not
Doesn't seem like that though. That actually looks like it's a barcode almost
It looks like no, I think the tattoo on her eye is just the rebel symbol
And I think the tattoo on her arm i'm not sure about that one. Well, yeah, your arm that identifies her as a drop
Yes, right. Yeah. Yeah, right. My bad
You would think if that is a rank insignia itself, that is insanely stupid to have that be a permanent tattoo
That's kind of a bad idea in general because what if you promote them?
It's like oh i've got to get it
You start off with one and then you just keep going all the way around until you're the fucking thing is
We actually don't know if it's a ranking signature
Yeah, that was just me kind of look but it is an identifier of what type of troop she was so
What if she became a different type of trooper like yeah
It's the I think it's the equivalent of somebody who gets the a marine's tattoo or a ranger's tattoo or an air force tattoo
On their arm where it's not specifically their rank, but they're just yeah, i'm fine with it existing
Which I think is funny which didn't hide the eye tattoo
Yeah, it's weird that she
Cover that up
Yeah, because we don't know as an audience that that means she's a rebel drop trooper or whatever
So they didn't even need to draw attention to it
Yeah, but they do and so now that just makes the I think doubly odd
Well, yeah, we probably wouldn't even be mentioning the Ith. Well, we might have actually
Yeah, did they not have tattoo removal technology in star wars? Maybe not. I don't know. Yeah, it's called a lightsaber
I think I think it's amusing by the way
Yeah, I don't really I don't really care about this because I just don't care about her
But I don't believe that she would actually go along with this mission if you remember remember
She wants to stay on that planet and she wants mando to leave it because she doesn't want to be found by anybody
And she's got a decent like way of making money there and he's like here's a mission
That's going to take you directly into the heart of the empire
Other as well as other bounty hunters and she's on the run from several people
She said like in terms of noticing and yeah, he'll pay her for it. It's like yeah
She could go and pursue work if she wanted to right like this is she's got money. She can win
She was all against him until he told her that it was against um for me imperials and then she says she's in
so that's implying that she has a really big hatred for the imperials and that she'll be yeah, but
I feel like if that's how much she hates them. Why isn't she already proactively doing that?
Yeah, good question
But i'm just saying they could have justified it like with her being willing to risk her, you know
Getting caught to fight imperials and stuff
Yeah, and she would have said something like I know I used to be a soldier and I thought i'd like the quiet
quiet life, but there's still a lot of fight and spark in me and
I I feel like I could still do so much more than just hanging out here fighting thugs in bars
they could have done something but
All right, I guess this is what it is
um, the ship starts to like
Panic them because it's all like lisming and they find out that baby Yoda is just fucking with the controls
Um
Once again just clocking it in for mando being so incompetent. It drives me nuts
Like whoops, I left my baby in the cockpit
Who has been reaching for controls throughout the series and stuff. Yeah, this is not the first time he's done this
but
Baby Yoda is very cute true
true
possible to criticize it was a cute baby Yoda was doing something cute there go
Not a problem at all, you know, it makes people happy
um
All right. So again, because I don't have as many issues with seven as I do with eight so i'm kind of like no
Kara takes issue with quill for being or quill whatever for what did we find out his name was I always forget quill
Quill quill spell how i'm calling him i'm calling him quill because he's like a little
Fuck it i'm going with quill
so
She takes issue with quill for being a slave to the empire
When she literally admitted to being a person who can't go back to the republic because of what she's done since her time being
A shock trooper that would earn her a life sentence
Well, no, no the that no she was a shock trooper for the resistance
I thought she had done things afterwards that she says specifically
Would earn her several life sentences. Yes. That's what i'm referencing
I'm saying she's like this guy this slave has done things that are potentially she didn't even know
Potentially morally reprehensible while being a slave despite being a person who's on the run from the good guys because of what she's done
She's like taking the moral high ground with him. It's like okay
He was a slave how are you taking the moral
Man who was forced to work she bugs the hell out of me in that scene, but she was forced to commit all those horrible crimes
Maybe they're like he had no choice
Yeah, and you know that he did anything bad for all she knows he just did some manual labor
Yeah, well he he says like he managed to earn his freedom by building things with his hands. This is like yeah
Yeah, well you probably did evil stuff
Okay, unlike me you have done things that are worth multiple life sentences in the republic
Yeah, i'm hiding on this planet from the law
um
We got this weird
Extended montage of quill finding and fixing the droid and teaching it how to be humane or something. Yes
And I don't know what to make of any of this
Robots have muscle memory robots need to be taught how to walk and all that. Yeah machine
Would I yeah, see there's like I don't have too much of an issue with this scene
But it does have contradictive elements to it that
Robot seems to have maintained all its training in regards to combat like it's it comes to a shot and it
Oh, that's in my nose right it's in my nose
But it can can't even walk and yet
Yeah, it could do all the things it could do in this episode in the next but it can't pick up a cup
It can't walk properly or pick up a cup properly
unless quill put it through like
It's all about programming it can't walk but if it has to walk towards someone it has to kill man that is gone
He knows exactly how to do that, but walking for peaceful purposes
No, can't do it
Picking up a cup. Um
Uh, let's see. Oh mando has the floating basket again. He just has one
Yeah, um
It I don't really care about that because they could have just been holding him, right?
But it's just like oh you have that you just hang on floating. Hang on floating basket
You're talking about the that floating frame thing when they turn up to uh quill
They just have it and it's like wow this whole season that would have been really useful. They just have a floating thing for baby Yoda
No, I thought he lost it because quill
I thought it looked like quill rebuilt it when they're on the ship. Yeah, he does
He does from from their new one, but they bring their new one with them. Okay. Okay
It's really weird because it was always a good little I actually like that in episode two, right?
You get mando can remotely lock it down and push it away and pull it forward. It's a pretty good little defensive
System for baby Yoda and it makes it so he can't wander off
They lose it and by the time we hit well episode four because it's it's episode three that it's lost
And then for the rest of time he's just letting baby Yoda wander around
And it's like damn if you had kept that thing we would have a lot of reason to believe that baby Yoda would be safe
And then he just has one in this episode. It's like oh
Okay, listen every every bounty hunter keeps with them a portable crib
Oh, I don't know. He could have picked it up when he hired cara dune or thing on him
Just on that planet like I need something a pottery thing to take baby Yoda
That was right the appearance of it. I don't have an issue with
And just more commenting on their missed opportunities to make other problems go away by having that thing
Throughout you know another episode you mean yeah
yeah
so
Quill says that ig has a personality but like robots aren't good or bad
And I this really goes into this weird Disney. We saw this in solo the movie
Yeah
I'm not against these themes being explored but in star wars they've always played it loose
Yeah, they need consistent canon to actually determine if these are
sentient beings or mimicking sentience through programming that needs to be established and known fully because there's a lot of yeah weird crap
Well, I think the thing is right the problem is I actually think these themes are awesome
Like I personally find this entire subject very interesting
But star wars has always played loose on purpose because you don't want to you don't want to open pandora's box on this one
This is a big existential question
About like the nature of consciousness and this show keeps flip-flopping on what it actually is
Well, this is this is the thing, right?
Even if they had the technology to create sentient robots to have a servant droid
You would never want to have it give it the the programming to be sentient if you're going to use it
You would never even yeah, you would never even push it that far and so just out of a
Pragmatic perspective that no manufacturer would ever give a robot that level of self-aware
Not unless it was something that was just the natural byproduct of artificial intelligence
But again, you just get rid of that. You just be like, you know programming
But even if you say that
Like the robot's consciousness is an emergent property of sufficiently advanced programming
You would never program a robot to be that advanced
And I think you could you could easily
Make a robot
mimic like self-awareness
But not be truly self-aware and we see in computer games with npc's already where you can interact and you can even give them
Personalities like c3po and them not be self-aware still not actually be truly sentient and and that would be consistent
That would be logical especially from a manufacturing standpoint that you're using these robots as a servant class
No one would make them self-aware and fully sentient and to try and true horn that they are is just like no
Well, I assume all the reason they do all of this is to make its death sad
Yeah, that's it
But that doesn't even work because mando mando lets him see his face
At which he justifies as well. He's not alive. So it doesn't matter
But yet he's sad when he's dead because he considers him a person
So it's it's it's weird not to mention the line from quill where he's like the robot. I found it broken destroyed devoid of life
It's like wait a minute. Wait, what do you mean by that?
Just on fringy's point I think people can become attached to things that aren't fully, you know
Sure, but and they can be sorry that it gets broken like some
Today
What what I mean? Oh, yeah. Yeah. I'm not saying i'm just generally yeah, you couldn't have it
Yeah, that someone is what i'm saying is it's it's his work around his work around is that he allows the robot to heal him
Because it's not alive
But he's sad when he dies
You can't you got it. You got to commit to one or the other you can't do both
It just doesn't work. Yeah, I agree with that. Um, we'll come to that as well. We'll probably talk more about the whole
Uh, this show could have been so good. Um, so in in my notes, my next point is that while they're on the ship
Uh, I have it. It is unfortunate that baby yoda doesn't kill kara true. True
I um, it actually really annoys me that baby yoda does force choke
It's like all right being able to move things seems like a more basic use the force force choke is a very specific kind of
And usually it's socially. Uh, I was gonna say social dark power, but luke doesn't i'm annoyed even more annoyed with healing
Okay, good. Good. Good. Good. Okay. Yeah, don't worry. Don't worry. I will get to healing but even this point I felt was too far
How come baby yoda didn't force choke the mud horn
You know
The only way this could be described if baby yoda is far more mature than he lets on and has actually had some training in
the force like
Well, that's a good point as well
Also, why wouldn't he how could he because this is the part where it also falls apart because if baby yoda was actually
Mature and self-aware he would know just by context that kara dude is not an enemy
Well, he would have defended himself from zero
Yeah, it's a very infantile thing to assume that they're fighting when they're having an arm wrestle
And so that actually is a thing that kind of breaks my theory that baby yoda actually is underdeveloped
He also doesn't heal mando when mando's near death
Mm
Instead he's just like well i'm out
Good luck man. Didn't didn't he over force already?
Oh, was he knocked out? Oh, that's even stupider though. We'll have to talk about that too. We'll get there
We'll get there but as to healing. Um, I wasn't
Also, that was already that was still after mando was wounded by the way. Yes. Oh, yeah. Good point as well
Yeah, good point
And also it doesn't even make sense that not well. Oh, yeah, we'll get to that
Yeah, like I just really want to stress really unfortunate, uh, mando prevented baby yoda from finishing the job
Uh, it's a plot point that we're all gonna have to biggest flaw with the whole show
I find her annoying. I don't hate her
Uh, there's this thing baby yoda found out about choking
Uh from the previous episode where mando tried to choke demon man. It's another example bad parenting
Um
Uh
So yeah next that i've got is uh, how come mando doesn't know about the force and yeah
That's my notes too. The forces for some reason still mystic and legendary
Someone killed the emperor really who like
Man those remember those clones being led by those generals what generals, um
Well remember that organization that worked with the republic for tens of thousands of years
I guess palpatine erased them from history and memory
Have you heard about this new, you know school that is teaching people about some magic?
Because you like assume luke is already setting up a jedi training thing somewhere. Why would he's incompetent and cowardly?
uh, of course
but even even in canon
real canon of the um, uh
sequel trilogy luke has opened a school at some point and he's training jet young jedi so
This is the fact that it's a mystery and no one knows about it is baffling
Yeah, uh, we kind of touched on it before with the whole clone wars thing
It's just it's just a consistently annoying aspect because like you'd feel like you'd probably know more than most people maybe. Um
I don't get why car weathers had them meet them on the outskirts of the place
I thought that was just because of the imperial presence in the city that they might but it's all a ruse though
but why
Do you know what I mean you'd be like, hey land pretty close
He initially planned on attacking
The y-pocks so far away from where you need to go to the point
We have to travel for two full days or at least the day to half. Did they have to walk?
I think they showed up and they had it was just carl weathers and his two bodyguards
Yeah, they didn't have any vehicles. They apparently walked here
Walk for two days
That would suck
It's a well, I could tell you why I could tell you why it happened is because we need to have that nighttime scene
Where the car weathers gets convinced that annoyed me that well the journey me though
Like you think like this is a weird thing for carl to do. Why would he do it?
And it's like well, they needed another thing to happen. So it has to be this way and you're like, uh, yeah
He ain't no apollo anymore. I don't know if he could walk through
The wilderness
The the scorched earth for two days and nights. I have the tiger. I have the tiger. Sorry
Um thinking of rocky now
about the attack
When they were attacked by the
Is your is your objection that they can't hit crap when they're getting attacked? I find it funny
Like she has a rapid fire blaster thing. She has a light machine gun. Basically close there
They're really close and the the bullets there the blaster. She's actually firing lights up her target
And so the argument that she can't see what she's firing
I was like they can't hit the broadside of a barn in that scene. I was it was legitimately annoying. He's like come off it
Yeah, it is annoying. Yeah
Mando has the most luck with his flamethrower which by the way when you try and fire a flamethrower at a flying
Object that's going away from you
It's like you're probably not gonna hit it much and yet they show a shot where it's like on fire as a result of him
Having done it. It was like oh, wow. That was effective compared to wow all those other weapons
That is also
The wingspan of these things wouldn't have the lift to lift one of those blurred things. No way it could lift one of them
Knit pick thing right there. And uh, yeah, just it just bugs me that this was a huge surprise. Like do you not know about this?
Uh car whethers this is like your place of business. Like do you not know about the wildlife and
To any degree turns out they're attracted to campfires at night. Yeah, damn
And uh, you know lucky this all happened as well because uh
It turns him on his own team because he can't can't be good. Oh, well, I guess this brings up to
Brings us to yoda healing. So
Four ceilings baby out of this four ceiling. What was this a day before?
The rise of skywalker
Yeah, very cleverly done guys. We can tell good job
This might be we established it dude
I'm almost convinced that the release time was actually ordered that specific way
They were like get it so this episode comes out right before so that people will believe ray doing it in the movie
Oh, all right. This might be the thing that annoys me most out of the whole
Is the abo healing part I think
It's frustrating that he would even know how to do this. Yeah, there are a lot of
Oh, and this doesn't knock him out by the way this one
Doesn't it?
I don't think it does. I think I thought he got I think he he does sort of fall over I think
Yeah
Pull it up. Let's see. We'll check pretty sure. All right, pretty sure
Yeah, I might be rolling that one
Baby, I was walking up. He's waddling up
The old carls. Sorry, you don't need to do a commentary because they can already see it rags because i'm i'm better than you
I put it on the screen. Yeah, but mine is in higher resolution. I doubt it
I think that you would be mistaken. Yeah, he does fall over
Oh, okay
Oh
You know when you could vlc could get all glitchy sometimes i've got a pause that uh,
I don't know how to explain it really
Oh jeez cal, i'm so sorry
So, yeah, I they don't show any more of him that night he's in crib i'm guessing
Do they cut away to where he's like passed out or something?
Yeah, and also what's weird too is that in the scene right after he's healed they're walking through the barren landscape
And carl weathers is talking to his two bounty hunter guys
Oh, yeah, so i'm like, it's weird that you would
Why not just tell them to not kill yeah, they're part of the guild aren't they you're part of the guild
Like they're on your side. Why did you not just say, you know what? This guy saved my life
We're gonna do you think we're gonna let him go because interestingly
he's pointing to his healed arm as if to as if he's trying to convince them that this means a lot to him and that
What what if the what if the i'm gonna pretend for a second that this show isn't terrible?
So what if he what if we're supposed to infer that he's trying to argue that they should work with them instead of against them
And that conversation didn't go the way he wanted and so he killed them. Well, he's their boss anyway
I mean i'm i'm saying I don't think that's the case
Yeah, he he leads all of the guild that he pays them
Like they're already getting paid by him for this job or the very least
He's the manner in which they get the opportunities to get paid, right?
Well, even here he would say like he would have to pay them for this job. Oh, yeah
He provides the money doesn't he? Yeah, so he'd be like if he says all right guys, don't kill bounty hunter
This don't kill this mandalorian guy. They're probably like oh, thank god
Oh, thank goodness. Yeah, oh man, because all i've got are these blasters. Oh by the way
Um, not that I don't already have a problem with how force healing just works mechanically
But how does he pull out the poison exactly? How does that work?
with yoda
Sucks it out
like I wonder if it just it just generally heals your body to the point of
Like, you know like it gets rid of any scars
It also gets rid of any kind of like imperfections because that's just it just returns your body to a neutral state or something
It's just like oh neat
Hey, my eyes were I ended up 20 20 vision I do now neat. Thanks, baby. Oh, no
Hey
So this seems ridiculous
uh, I have lots of issues with it that are like different mechanical but
Your car weathers and you've decided you have to kill your own men
And so i've got a screenshot here that sums up exactly what we're looking at in terms of
chess pieces on a board
So if you're carl, wouldn't you think to yourself like I need to get behind my men
So I can shoot them without risk of them shooting me
And I need to be in a position where I don't immediately threaten the two people that I want to be on the team of
Instead he positions himself in what I would call the worst possible
And it results
Look, so this is the really interesting part. They're about to pull guns on mando and cara. They already have
Well in my screenshot they have yeah
So that's interesting to me that means that they were always planning to kill them before they even got to the uh, the exchange, right?
I guess yeah, so what the hell were they waiting for?
They wanted them to take
Hey mando, hey super competent veteran bounty hunter who's careful about everything
Why are you cool with two people you barely trust being behind you?
It infuriates me he's just he's so lame again. Why didn't they kill them while they were asleep?
Yeah, that too
Uh, but they decide now is the time and luckily for them fucking carl tids on him shoots them both
And it blows my mind the cara and mando don't immediately on reflex. Just shoot the shit out of car
Yeah, yeah
It's like because they don't know that when those blasters missed them that they hit the guys behind them
No, they could have easily assumed that he just missed them when trying to fire on them. And so
I like that look at look at the way that they're aiming their guns
By the way, there is no fucking way that mando and cara both aiming at him
There's no way there's no position that he could exist that's possible
She's she's aiming upwards somewhere
Mando's probably aiming at him, but cara isn't
There could be another pterodactyl behind you i'm ready this time
So, yeah, they were really lucky they didn't just immediately like he still had this god it's dumb. It's also dumb
Um, okay
So, yeah, this is where he says they won't stop coming if the imp lives referring to vin hertzog
I don't know why this is something they think
So this is one of those little details of if you are the
Actress who ever plays cara. I don't know. But would this be a scenario where your eyes are closed?
Is she just blinking or
I don't think so. She just
Just a weird it's it's one of those instinct I guess she was enacting I don't know but it's just
Um next up i've got is the
Part so there's a lot to their plan that I have criticisms for fists and foremost
Get quill and the baby to the ship and to lockdown mode because and he says nothing on this planet can breach those doors
I refuse to believe that
Yeah, I mean I I think that could have been just hyperbole. It was just exaggerating
okay
And we talked about lockdown in the previous episode. I think
Could kind of justify but it's nothing explained in the series to just like but it
Presents an issue now for episode two where we didn't have one before. It's like wait
Why didn't you put it on lockdown in episode two? It's like oh, yeah, exactly
There are issues. I mean and you can try to fight by saying, you know
Did he know there were jawas on the planet and that had me to be preserved?
Because but there's no need to get into it again because we already discussed it
um
So their plan is we're going to put him in unlike under fake restraints
We're going to walk in with her because we're going to say that car is the one that got him
And we're going to say that she submitted to
Karl for the bounty and that they're all going to go in and shoot the crap out of the imp and his men
Killing him releasing them from uh, the bounty hunting that is for baby yoda
Winning the day that is the plan
So it's like first and foremost
Why in the world would they not ask to look at baby yoda at any of the several checkpoints coming toward it?
They pretend they're not going to actually bring baby yoda
Oh, I was going to go even sooner than that. Why do they think that killing this one imperial guy vernor would well be later than that
the empire go away
Well, they say repeatedly that if you kill the uh the head the um
The uh stormtroopers just scatter because they don't have you know
Yeah, but that they're still going to come and look for him
He still has a problem
No, the question is why do they think that the imp is the top of the chain?
Yeah
well
If he's been the head honcho in the town, they might there's no reason to believe that there is a that would give me reason to
Believe he's not the fact that he's even there
Really, I don't know from the early episodes
It seemed like he was very much on his own and this was a small pocket that he was maintaining
um
And so that one I don't have the issue with my issue is
There are much easier ways to kill him than putting yourself in a vulnerable position right at him
Yeah, there's no way he doesn't have contacts with other stormtroopers and
Even if you didn't even if he didn't know even if you thought oh, maybe maybe not like what an insane risk this is
to take on
Hoping that this will end the imperials caring about baby yoda anymore
Yeah
Obviously they will still care and they'll want him back and they will come and get you now if anything this will increase their search for you
Well, they just yeah, this is the problem. They assume by killing the imp everything's over and it's just like why?
Anyway, um, they don't wait
Quill to get to the ship to confirm that he's back there and safe before engaging the plan for some reason
They think that they should just go right ahead while he's going back. I'm just like basic safety and precautionary
Things. Yeah, hopefully that won't have any negative. Yeah, hopefully that won't end badly. Let's just assume it doesn't but now
um
So yeah
they just assume at every
Position along the way to the the target that no one's gonna ask to look at baby yoda for clarification
Confirmation even they're just like nah, they won't it'll be fine. It's like oh
Okay, that'll like destroy your entire plan, but okay, uh, nobody questions the fact that they let
Nobody questions the fact that they let mando keep his helmet is gauntlets his armor his bandolier
None of it. They're just like yeah, that's all fine
Like oh, I know there's a flame. They're attached here and they even highlight it
They even highlight that he's like I want that helmet. I'll pay you 20 credits which first of all 20 credits for something that
Is
That has built-in heads-up displays and extra magic vision and stuff for 20 credit. Come on. What are they paying you man?
But the fact they let him keep it on is insane like obviously they will have taken his arm
If they're that's ridiculous that they don't it's in
If I was verna hurts hog once they open that door and i'm like, why the fuck is he still in his battle armor?
Yeah, yeah, why does he still have his rocket thing in his fight
Yeah, he's still on down at this table and fucking flamethrower me
You know, it's not like he's got one of those old timey things where the shackles are attached to his legs and his arms
He's his arms are fully immovable. He can just move them up and shoot the rock and the plane
This is insanely. Yeah. Yeah, uh
When a hit song describes it as he's like
It's amazing. What's mandalorian artisans can do with forging beskar
It's like oh, so this is what he's got on him is evidence of a mandalorian smith doing it
He literally like got the items in that town in episode three
Disappeared for like an hour and then came out with the full suit and it's just like, uh
I think there are mandalorians in this area
Like just that's just my assumption I feel as if you might have an armor vendor somewhere in this town
And let me just say you did that accent really well. You have a talent for accents
It's very impressive why that's very kind of you. Oh, just you know, you could do the american one on your
uh
You can do the welsh one really well and you do kylo ren really well
I say like three words with him every time
So, yeah, I don't mean to jump ahead just tell me if there's anything else you guys are thinking about but uh
I want to go now to the conversation with winner hit song at the table
Yeah, um, yeah there it's weird that their plan does not account for him asking to see the baby
Okay, just before that
Right, he should be pissed at mandalorian. He's caused him loads of trouble after paying him and he's brandishing his payment in front of him
Like hey, check it out
It's like cool
And the dude is so kind and easy going he's like, why did you guys resist the empire?
The empire is really good. It makes everything matter
It's like it hits up. What are you doing?
Why are you appealing to him like this get on with it?
It blows my mind that he's like, yeah
I'm gonna give you a speech about how the empire is pretty cool right now when you've got the baby right there
And that's been your only goal for this entire season and you're just like, yeah
I'm just gonna chat with you about the empire for a bit if that's cool
And then when he insists to see the baby, I mean it really says he conveniently gets a call
Well, okay again winding back to now what rag said so this to me is parody levels where he's like
I want to seize the baby and he's like are you sleeping like what?
It gets better though, it gets better because when a headstock says we would be quiet
I didn't care if it lived or died, but I don't want to disturb its sleep. It's like what I mean
I have a line. I do not wish to cross
And then yeah, their plan is about to fall
Everything is about to fall apart
It's all about to be over because they're requesting to see the baby which is something they should have accounted for but they did
They're just like phone call. Oh phone call. Thank god lucky that phone call
And so normally we would be like, all right, let's judge the convenience of this phone call
Who is it and why are they calling?
It's a literal call from his boss to tell him the baby isn't in the room and that he's he's about to kill him
Well also just this thing, right?
um, uh
The uh, the old guy he actually says the name of who's calling like
Allowed and in the next episode they're like, who is this guy? And then mando's like, it must be him
I was like you heard the guy say the name on the call. I didn't even catch that
Yeah, he actually says hello. So I'm sorry
And then they're there then they don't know who he is in the next episode nice, I'm gonna write that in my notes
This whole ad I can attribute
This whole aspect is I say mof gideon and the call in this assault is absolute nonsense
Yes, it is. Why did mof gideon interrupt imperial guy from checking the baby to tell him to check the baby exactly
Why did he kill all of his own men why is it even worse if mof gideon wants baby yoda so much
He's just gonna shoot randomly into the you know, diner where the baby is
Risking killing the baby in the process. Oh, there's a lot of everyone else
Like this one of them alive
If you like this show and you defend this part you're insane. Oh
This is nuts. It is
This is the thing this is the good half of the finale
So, yeah, I guess
As the troopers start to arrive one by one by one by one by one our heroes just stand in awe
They don't do anything even though they're all obviously going to try and kill them
We'll get to the point of killing winnahitsog we'll get to that next episode because they make it clear for us
They give us a nice reason for it and we'll discuss that but yeah, it's just fascinating to me that that mando kara and karl
They're all watching the stormtroopers pour in and they just do nothing and it's like
Amanda why don't you try shooting them from covers? They're all look at this shot. They're lined up like bowling pins
And he's he's behind cover and he's a good shot
And he just doesn't seem to give a shit
Selectively. Yeah, you might as well. Just take the shot
And we know their armor can't protect them. They are standing right there. They have cover. They don't like whoa. Yeah. Yeah
Really dumb do do
Yeah, so, um, he decides to you know, mando's just as stupid as moth gideon
He decides to call quill to tell him to get to inside the ship where that's all quill was doing anyway
Yeah, this this is annoying because it is actually mandalorian calling quill
That the speed, you know bikers
Are able to find out where quill is they actually hear the conversation which makes no sense to me
I figured they would be on different frequencies. I know like exactly you'd think it'd be encoded on different frequencies
But no the speed is actually hear the call. And so it's actually
Mandalorian causes quill's death. Yeah, and that is that is not uh
Quill's death actually really bothers me because he's probably the one character I actually like
The end of all of this outside of baby yoda, uh, and so not only is quill shot in the back as he's running away
Uh, he's killed because mandalorian's an idiot
Well, this is already heading back
This is all very bad writing because you would assume like obviously
like
It would be on a different even if you could like like if say it was normal radio
And you could listen in on radio if you had the right frequency, right?
You need to know the frequency first
It's like is it just random chance that they're on the same frequency as the speeder or you would they wouldn't have look at it
This way a private one if this is common then mando should have known better if it's not common
Then how were they able to do that?
Exactly. There's there's multiple problems in either way. Why are you telling quill to do a thing?
He was doing he's already doing hi
Just do that thing you were doing a little bit faster. If only we had gotten you to safety before engaging this plan. Ah
Pesky and if he just didn't say anything quill would have made it to the spaceship perfectly safe and did the you know
Protection mode on it and no one would know where the baby was
Exactly. No one would know
20 seconds later
Quill would have been inside the ship
Yeah, I hate it
Why is boss gideon letting them live he he establishes that he's about to get control of the baby
Because he knows it's not in there and he just
I don't understand like I re-watched this with fringing. I still don't get it. Why is gideon allowing them to live in there?
Yeah, and I don't understand
Yeah, it's very odd and there's another we like his his actual dialogue is really poor like it's something like
Yeah, it is you do not know what you have
But I know what you have
I am evil
By the way like like i'm sure the guy can act in other circumstances, but he is so miscast for that role
Oh
You haven't watched breaking bad that's gust spring and he's fantastic in breaking bad
Yeah, oh really because I hear I don't feel he suits this role at all
He's got no material. That's part of the problem. Yeah, I would blame the right thing. Who is this character?
Yeah
I am bad
and
Yes
Do you know what this gun is this is a this gun
This man in fact shot in 2792 by the street called corporation
I want to I want to point out he assaulted the entire building had he only killed his own men
Yeah
You're impressive dude impressive like
I don't know how you pulled it off and for some reason he seems to be comfortable with him being alive in there
And I can only assume his plot armor. It's a very
significant case of plot armor
He intended to he he shot in there intending to get them
But yet he in the next episode says oh he got two, you know sundown
Free isn't it obvious? He only intended to kill his own men because that makes sense. Yeah
That's pretty smart. It's all nightfall
Why?
Exactly. You have all the cards giving him more time to give him more opportunity to escape
The reality is I don't even understand why he's letting them stay they have no leverage
He already knows that that his guys have got the kid
So exactly there's no reason for these guys and there's the kid or you're all dead
I'm counting down from 10. Oh wait, I have the kid. So you're just dead then. Oh, wait, I have the kid. Yeah, see ya
That's it. You're just my enemy trapped in this building. Um, why didn't why didn't queel contact the droid to come and save him?
As he was approaching the ship why wasn't he like hey droid come outside and help me because i'm about to get attacked by speeders
You did notice how incredibly quickly that droid passes the distance from the ship to the uh speeders who are standing
Like parked outside the town the beginning it can sprint shad it can sprint
Like as fast as speeders like oh my goodness
Yeah, totally
um
And yeah, so all i've got left for the notes of this episode is
I i've insulted by the way, they killed quill. I think it was lame. Yeah, it's pretty lame
Shit
I liked him. I mean he would he was yeah, he was the only character who hadn't eaten in bed
Like and he felt speak no more
No more
So
Shall we go to the opening scene of episode eight?
Yeah, I guess uh, we let's start up episode eight then
All right, what's our first point for eight?
That's all right
They're shooting the can with the speeder guys, right?
I I love that scene. I don't care what you say
I fucking loved it
I loved it. I thought it was I just funny and I I thought it was great
I think that one scene
I loved it. I didn't think it was funny. I was I thought it was funny. I was
Wondering what the like quill just died and now we're all just having a happy laugh time like, okay
um
I mean
Let's just do the let's just get it out of the way the standard argument
So stormtroopers can't aim canonically. Is this is this a good thing shad?
So it's annoyed me that they can't like like the thing is
That should never have been the case if they're going to be competent soldiers
There are ways you can try and justify it by saying
they were never trained extensively and stormtroopers only used as mass infantry and they just need to shoot in the one direction and so
Aiming and precision was never a thing that they trained up a lot
And look that's trying to give them too much because it honestly it's just a result of plot armor and bad
Filmmaking that there's such bad aims in all the movies and everything
The problem is that they are you you watch the movies you see them being terrible aims and it's just the state of it
and so
I personally just loved that they owned it in this and it's like well, we can't change canon now
So we'll just go with it and then they can't they can't own anything
They've got so the problem with them being bad aim in empire or because the new hope gets away with it empire
Doesn't at the end it gets away with it in the opening because they're pretty good in the opening
And then return of the jedi does not get away with it at all
They select they are so what we're dealing with after the ot is sometimes stormtroopers are good. Sometimes they're bad
What explains this plot armor explains it? It's a problem
They only they're only terrible when they need the good guys to escape you're like, okay
Then you got tiger white ctb and like I want to make this funny scene where they can't shoot at all
And i'm like so great you just fucked with all the scenes where they are competent now
Just like for reference. There are a few there are fewer ones where they're competent
It's been the standard that stormtroopers are crap
What do you go are you going from star are you going from disney canon 2 or are we using you?
Well, even if just off the ot like, you know empire and return of the jedi it's very blatant empire is half and half
Because in hawth they're fine
Uh, yeah, yeah
But um, i'm just saying it's the general thing from all like i'd say it's more accepted that they're bad shots
And even if you like you could if you want the opening in a new hope they annihilate
Yeah, yeah, I like I get that
But more often than not they can't shoot because of stuff like this
Yeah, this is this I hate this and I hate if it was in the reverse
by the way, if we had a scene where some general was like
Uh showing a new general around he was going to be a protagonist and they were looking at the the quarters in which the stormtroopers
Train and they're all ace shots
I'd be like, no you shouldn't have done that because that's going to cause problems for all the times that they're terrible
all we need to do is just
Really ride on the wave of some are bad some are good and they just they happen to miss in the times that they miss
And they happen to hit in the house. I don't think that explains it adequately for the end
No, there is no explaining it. There's no explaining it. It's it's a contradiction. There's no explaining it
They're sometimes good sometimes bad. We're fucked anyway, but to have a scene where you go loll. They're always bad. It's like no
Well, hang on. I mean if you want to be specific this scene you could say is only representative for these two
No, no, no, no, no, we're combining this with bill boo's statement
With bill burr's statement. Okay, uh that there's a general understanding a universal. We all know stormtroopers suck
We all know that yeah, and yeah, I agree and that's I like it because
You can justify it with uh, just trying to say well
They were never trained because they just aim in the same direction. And so
How do you explain all the times they've been competent
I trust me. Wait, wait, you have an issue with that. Why don't you have an issue with the opening of a new hope?
What about a new hope? Yeah
Because mandalorians even if stormtroopers could aim or not mandalorians are set up to be faster. Okay. Okay
Well, all i'm saying is if this is a plus
Uh, shouldn't all scenes that stormtroopers are competent in now be confusing?
No, because there can be pockets of more competent stormtroopers. That doesn't invalidate it. Um, and the other thing is like
The the dialogue between the two is casual and funny and that they're calling up. Oh, no, it's just killed some other person
But that's like the real military though
Like have you talked with people from like the military who could be super casual like this, but they're still like army accurate
I feel like you you made my argument just now though
My argument was the we could just assume it's 50 50 ish that some are good some are bad
But you just said this scene is that just like no this scene is like lol. They're bad
So hang on. What are you saying?
I'm saying that the way we rationalize a new hope empire return of the jedi is that we've got troopers that as a whole
Can aim pretty well sometimes and sometimes can't they just you know, they're humans. They're all different
This scene is like lol. They're so bad. Aren't they nudge nudge?
Wig wig and we're like what no now no now you've just confirmed that they're all terrible by cannon. That's stupid
Also this in the scenario that we're in
No with this episode. This is post episode six these two stormtroopers
They should be better survived
Yeah, there's a one to survive this long
They're the ones who lived who got through it all who who are sticking through with their enlistment
The unlike is it really worth neutering old bad guys for a joke?
Like but I see this is the thing. Okay. I actually don't like that stormtrooper is a bad aims overall
I think the pot armor is bad and it was a result of bad filmmaking
But because it's there I kind of like the fact that they just own it and have gone with it and trying to fit it
And it's a comment. It's like it's a it's a comedy like it's a fun funny
I found it hilarious
Me and a lot of people um, I think
Objective but I found it hilarious and I love the scene. I think the broader issue that I have with it is that
Yeah out of the universe ha ha stormtroopers about an aim
But the whole idea in star wars is that the empire is a force to be reckoned with
So if there are forced to be reckoned with you would assume that the soldiers are pretty good at hitting their targets
But this show because you can just have firepower and numbers and there'll still be a force to be right
So as long as there's not 50 in front of you you're fine
Yeah, probably that's that's generally
The thing is I know that's exactly what happens
Because I don't think that I think like
The idea that we never have to worry about stormtroopers doing anything bad unless there's like 50 of them like that sucks
Yeah, I agree. I agree. But that is the same. It's because of this
You said yourself that this owns that but this is the thing that created this thing is it no
No, it hasn't created it. It existed in return the jedi when stormtroopers are defeated by little
You know, but this is no not definitely not in return of the jedi. I want to highlight by the way
And remember layer is shot in return of the jedi
Yeah, yeah
One person gets shot out of how many attempts well, we don't we don't see all the people who died
I'm just talking about the main characters
Yeah, I I think it's fairly like standard that stormtroopers are terrible aims. I disagree. I think across the ot we're given
I don't know. See we're given enough reference for both
enough reference to both
See even in the defense of the new hope that they wanted them to escape and stuff
You can't find that you can't fight that that's absolutely a new hope is sealed shut the scene with the stormtroopers in the opening
They annihilate the scene on the death star they're terrible
But we have more than enough reason to believe they're terrible because darth vader wants them to escape
Yeah, I know that's with the amount
That's 100 type empire. They perform just fine on hearth. They perform terribly on baspen. I agree
So now we're dealing with like a 75 25
Then you do return of the jedi and we push to 50 50 as far as i'm concerned and then this scene is like loll
No, it's 100 nil. And then you have stuff in uh, you know in the in the proof
Even if there's a general understanding that stormtroopers are generally bad aims it still doesn't
Exclude the possibility that there's a couple who can be good. Oh fucking thank christ. Some of them might be able to shoot you, baby
Yeah, even with bill burke's statement like I look
Anyway, it's not a big thing. It'd be like overall for me
I just these are the reasons why I liked it and I thought I was
I don't really mind people finding it. I don't mind that people found it funny. I I mean, that's fine
I can see the entertainment value that people can get out of this
Would be imposing anymore. Stormtroopers are forever neutered. Absolutely
Like they were like they were never imposing especially with this
For hot I'm not sure I don't really agree. Not really like
What do you mean? They massacre the rebels on two different occasions. Yeah, they like they
Never felt it might be might be a return of the jedi. Yeah return of the jedi is very flawed. Unfortunately
There's a thing
And I don't think that we should go like oh, you know, well, I guess they're shit
Yeah, let's just own the floors now as actual cannon. It's like what no
Yeah, it's like it's a cute little wink wink nudge nudge thing
But again, I uh, I don't think it's a good idea to boil down the main threat of the series
So, you know, you know what? This is a microcosm off. They made a joke out of hucks in tlj. How'd that work out?
Aren't scout troopers supposed to be like the sniper units scout troopers aren't the worst that's for sure and and yeah, these two guys are
Blindingly incompetent. This isn't just simple. They can't even
Well, this isn't even they've got more incompetence to come after this bit. Okay. I have an analogy
Okay, I have an analogy actually on thanksgiving. I had some relatives come in from alba kirky
and two of my relatives are like two, um two cousins who are really young they're like, um
grade school essentially
And I we went to my grandparents house, which is outside of city limits and I do a lot of uh shooting out there
So I brought some of my guns to do some shooting and they wanted to try it out
And so with a pistol, right there's all controlled environment safety and everything like that. I walked them through all the basics
They're old enough to do this stuff
And after a couple magazines of putting bullets down range at actual cans sitting on the ground
one of my young
uh cousins was able to
Fairly well hit the can with a Glock
And pistols are the hardest thing to shoot that there is
So there is no way I'm believing this i'm i'm i'm not believing this
I don't want to believe it
I wonder I wonder if it's because like star wars is dead to me from the sequel trilogy
Why can't it be dead to you with stuff like this?
I can't imagine no, no because it's already dead
So there's it can't do any more harm and I can just enjoy the comedy of it because I have little
No investment left in the series. I wonder if that might be
Explain my reaction partly because I found it very entertaining. I laughed at it
All right, so anyway
Oh, yeah, I want to remind you that they sniped quill so
Maybe they were just ran him over
Had to get really close
um
So yeah, they move on to say uh, these are the two quotes i've got to use
uh
He marv gideon killed his own men to lay down the law. He did it to make a point
That's all we get
Can we uh, can we just spend like a minute talking about how stupid it is when bad guys kill their own men?
Sure
That's why I like the scene where it's like, oh, yeah, they ready to come you sit now
All right
Yeah, but I guess I guess the thing that looks funny because they were just pointing it out
I just find it to be it's so annoying as a trope like I don't know what to tell you
But like a lot of people who were in charge of militaries that we now look back on and don't like
Were still kind of good to their own people
How do you instill the confidence of your own men if you kill them when they interrupt you that's dumb as shit?
Well, I mean in regards to that
I like you honestly don't know what level of brainwashing stormtroopers have because like those two guys standing outside the city in reality if they're like
All their mates are being killed by this guy that's come in here because they are ready to come in
They just killed a whole heap of errant men if they
Had any real brains. They'll be like screw this where we're laking it because it probably just shoot us for some
What I mean is um, but they obviously have some type of conditioning that's causing them to sure I guess I guess my problem is um
I I uh, I've known like court duty. I I didn't you know court duty infinite warfare. It's okay if you don't
There's none of us
I I watched um
I watched like five minutes of cutscenes from that
Sometime a couple of years ago and at the intro sequence the bad guys like he's just like ha ha you know
How I like instill the is something like do you know why I win and then he just shoots one of his own dudes
He's like, I don't care about my men and there's another guy there and i'm like, dude, are you not just out?
Yeah, I know
Can I reference uh, can I reference buffy season one for me? Let me do it. Okay, so
So scenario, all right, and I don't mind spoil. It's not really much of a spoiler
Anyway, they they literally in the first like five minutes of an episode
There's a main villain wants to kill main hero main villain hires the three. They're three vampires
They're very special good killers. They've been known they're spooky even one of our veteran characters knows them
Oh god, they go to attack buffy and she escapes. She just escapes. There's no like they're not really defeated
I would say they just sort of ran away from until she gets to her house and they can't get in
Um, so they go back to evil villain and they're like, sorry, man
We couldn't quite get her that time and he's like, okay. All right and kills all three of them
Yeah, it's just it's just these are resources guys and not only that but really valid human resources are very different
It's very sorry
the resources argument is far more applicable because
If this empire guy is just living off the dregs and he can't you know replenish his soldiers now, right killing them then it becomes
These are the most loyal the yeah, you need every last one of them you need the ball
These should be the best one. These are the ones who live these are the ones who
Stuck it out like at any point. Yeah, and and I limits about this
And I think we talked about it earlier
But it's worth repeating that I really wish the show
It started to delve into it like the remnants of the empire. Why are these guys sticking around? Why still enlist?
Yeah, do they believe in the cause are they doing it for pragmatic reasons?
Is it just for the paycheck in the mail as soon as they can again?
We don't know what type of brainwashing and conditioning the storm troopers have they signed up
No, but like what's the official canon? I actually don't know because in the sequel trilogy
They imply that there's mental conditioning and brainwashing even in the solo movie. Yes. Oh, yeah, he signed up voluntarily
Okay, so solo might do it because because it's a sequel trilogy that explain that there's brainwashing and condition. Yes
Yeah, that was probably this this may well be influenced by the fact that I watched a lot of you know
Style, I always got the impression that stormtroopers were just people who signed signed up. Yeah conscripted
I think that was um something I got from watching like robot chicken star wars and then you have like stormtroopers just talking like normal people
Well, they are normal if you remember in a new hope they're like have you guys heard about
There's two stormtroopers who are having a casual conversation with each other. They just sound like dudes in an army in an army
Yeah, I mean they like they can have casual conversations are still being brainwashed for loyalty
We don't do we ever see that in the sequels at all?
Outside of people outside of people who've broken the conditioning
It might be worthwhile to consider that
Oh my god, you're right. That's the only instance is when they say knights are red cool
Just just for reference we're the undertakers of this whole thing like we saw where the like the dissecting surgeons about all of this
It's just such a disaster
We're the people of whom articles are written about
We suffer in silence
Well non-silence, but you know
Yeah, we can infer that they're definitely not clones at this point because they're different in
The coins would definitely be out at this point and also they're americans. So yeah
Again, though
What do you think the writer was trying do you think the writer gave up or do you think the writer was trying to make a point?
By saying they killed their own men to lay down the law to make a point
I think the whole idea is he's an intimidating bad guy villain how
The easiest way to make your bad guy seem bad is to have him show him killing somebody
I think yeah, I think that's the thing. It's just very cliche villain stuff. Look I kill people
I was gonna say I want to clarify
I think it is good to have your villain kill someone but not his own men
That just makes me look like an idiot man. Yeah, and the easy reference for extreme incompetence or something like that. Not just
exactly
They misunderstand right because a good example is Darth Vader killed some guys
But it's because they few grossly like failed him
They failed him in a way that can't be also gave them more than one chance if I remember. Yes, he did
But also the killing vader does
Gives opportunity for promotion for other people
And so that would actually kind of just get them on board a bit with it
And the idea is to instill a certain level of fear
But you don't want to just like instill fear for asking simple questions that might actually
I'm picturing now like a parody scene where villains introduce. There's loads of men lined up
They're only soldiers casually breaks their neck during this conversation. He just keeps doing it. You're like, why are you doing this?
Oh, I don't know
I can't help it. I just killed someone really like, you know, the friend is in
Just grabs the dude just starts plunging at his lightsaber. Someone shots him in half. The fleet's in position, you know
So, yeah
Um, the troopers tell gideon they have the baby and they're not told to come they're just told to sit there
I don't well that this the call wasn't to gideon's men
It was the men that belonged to the previous guy and there seems to be a breakdown in communication between them and gideon
That's what I got from that. Oh, I just assumed that gideon was
Enacting his plan and that they need to stay away until it's done. But his plan is what I thought that's what was happening
What is his plan? What was his plan?
Well, see gideon still thinks your baby yoda's a thing and so no he doesn't
No, moth gideon knows what gideon knows exactly where baby yoda is
Yeah, he eventually no, no, no, no
He says in episode seven he says something like, um, it's about to
Like be in the baby isn't with you
The reason he told we're in a hutsog that gave him the call to say check again about the babies because he knew the baby
Wasn't there he knew the baby was there
I don't know none of it makes any sense. It's all very strange
Oh, that's doubly dumb
Yeah, because he didn't know and he didn't have any clones the only
Not clones, uh, the only reason the troopers went after quill is because of the radio call. So how did they
Okay. All right
I also I know we talked about it. I just love the idea that he's about to open baby yoda's carriage
He gets a call slowly waddles over and he says hey, can you check if the baby's there?
So when ig88 shows up they don't immediately shoot him
He's like that is shocking a bounty hunter assassin or they even make it clear. They're like, isn't this usually an assassin droid? It's like guys guys
What possible reason could this thing be doing to walk up to you kill it and they get really close to it
They walk right up to it
He's actually like half an arm's length away at this point
It's like you did I guess because they're so incompetent. They have to be that close to hit people, right makes sense
They they specifically they expressly state this is an igu unit. They know what it is
Yeah, but then they say like oh, it's a nursing droid loll. It's like I want to what?
Yeah, does that look like a nursing droid to you?
To me this feels like if a crocodile just started walking up to you and it's just like true
True go away. Oh look, it's a nursing crocodile
I think you put the gun right next to their mouth
So I want to highlight right i'm i'm gonna play pause this for the stream so
Ijd has grabbed his arm and broken it keep an eye on the stormtrooper in the background
The other guy doesn't kill him immediately shoot him not shooting
Still not sure he's just he's just like whoa, how surprising this is happening
Yeah, and then he's too close to be able to land the shot really bad by the way the cgi is pretty yeah
Pretty weak here like look at that. That looks terrible. That's really bad animation
I
And if these guys are so incompetent, why were they the ones entrusted?
And why wouldn't you have told them to immediately come back you'd be like guys get to us immediately
They weren't really interested to do that. They just overheard the radio also
It's very confusing how this works
Okay, it's pretty crazy that um, these guys couldn't hit a stationary can but were able to kill quill who was riding on
Top of a moving object. Yeah, I said that
Yeah
She sheds on ironic defenses, maybe they ran him over
I just ramped him like that'll do the job. It's like like they're shooting
Oh
You had one job guys so skipping forward to our heroes they discover there is a sewer vent in the bar. Um
Why we're in the world. Did you have a suit event that goes directly into the sewer in your bar?
Isn't that like that probably stink up the place?
What a horrible design to have isn't that similar to the sewer vent in the um holding cell on the death star?
Doesn't that make more sense though the in a prison area you'd have a vent that goes like to
Like the idea that you're smelling up a prison area. Yeah, fuck it. Who cares?
How are the prisoners smell some weird shit are they gonna complain to osha?
Also, if there's toilets in this in the in the prison cells, it would make sense. There's a sewer beneath it, right?
I mean the only defense I could think of is that it's technically blocked by those
You know chairs and that ain't doing much to stop poopy smells. I'll say that but I don't know if it's perfectly
So those are those are pretty wide flat things that were sitting on the wall. It's just it's just a chair
Like it's not gonna do that much
I don't know if has a
All right
Chad
I want you to poop in your downstairs room put a chair on top of it and see if see if your wife notices anything
Well, if I if I close the uh, you know the seat on the toilet it blocks the smell off for all, right?
um
My like my the biggest issue is that they can't shoot through the thing when the similar grade is shot through in one shot
On a new hope because like I think the grade is
The idea that she has this lmg rifle thing and it can't blast through your average sewer great come
Absolutely
Um
It bothers me that gideon is standing in the center of the open without a helmet
He could literally remember they said if you kill the leaders they'll scatter look at that guy
Oh, hey look guy is a leader just want to just want to make sure you guys are seeing what i'm seeing, right?
This is just the most blatant like please shoot me
No, but see he's an arrogant villain who kills his own men so of course he stands at the open, you know
So why aren't the empire throwing grenades in
They know baby yoda isn't in there. So
Why because we can't have our heroes be defeated
It is impossible for them to win look at how many storm troopers and elite troopers there are none of them can aim properly
What makes the elite troopers better than the normal ones
That they are five percent better at aiming
Not even that
So stupid, uh, you have to have every time you shoot a can you get a little mark on your armor and you get to 10 cans
Then you can get your armor. You're an elite. Definitely
Good for you
Hey, maybe the empire they are incentivized in you know making you know high training up storm troopers that are mentally handicapped so there'll be more
Yeah
Fictions dexterity skills you can count on us one can at a time
yes
The the the the the the the you have until nightfall why doesn't make sense just kill now
Why?
They have no leverage
Um, then we get the flashback that shows us everything we've already seen except
Like the mandalor and flying away with him at the end, uh, which
Is something we probably could have figured out by now
But this really to me felt like they had to fill this episode up
So like all this what we'd seen previously which what I liked was uh flashes of all this stuff and you could piece it together
You'd be like, oh so he was clearly part of a family who were attacked in a war
They put him in some kind of container and they were probably killed
But we get that like in no uncertain terms in this selection. I was just like, okay again, not a big problem
I just feel like it's wasting our time because this finale if you haven't noticed already is very stretched out
Like I got the same thing with the uh whole training montage in the last episode with yeah with the robot
That took really long and you don't really know why until you realize. Oh they had to fill which is weird considering that again
This at this whole season a half of it is is non like plot essential. Yeah
They had to rush through at the end. They're like, oh shit
This is last time some of the episodes are only 30 minutes long some of these episodes are less than 40 minutes
Out of the flashback. I actually liked that. They used one of the droids from the prequel trilogy
Yeah, actually made them look menacing and like yeah, they look cool. That was a nice touch
Yeah, and isn't it funny that we've reached the point where people are really excited to see prequel stuff in star wars
Yeah, but they're just they're just being they're just being uh,
That's just canon stuff
I want to make you guys aware of a quote from uh from car weathers if he captured the kid we'd already be dead
All right, but they had captured the kids. So yeah
See ya. Bye. I don't and that might actually be from mando
I can't remember who says it specifically but it's just such a stupid quote to put in your episode
Like is there a point where i'm off gideon actually says he has the child because even if he knows that they don't have it
He might assume that they've hidden the child away. How does he know that they don't have it then?
If he doesn't know where it is
I don't know. He knew like it seems like he knows that they don't have it
And are you telling me that the stormtroopers had uh coms that could connect them to other stormtroopers, but not enough to connect to gideon
really unless maybe
Don't get me wrong. There's there's flaws in it. But like if it's indicated with uh, uh,
Werner Herzog
The only explanation I could imagine
The only explanation I can see is that the elite troopers outside had some thermal thing that they could see into it to see that
The baby wasn't in there. That's all like it. That's all I can think of but even that's a stretch
Well, yeah, because they could be holding the baby to their chest or something and it might not show up like that's way too risky
the other thing is if um
Putting your baby on your chest trying to find out where like yeah
If he if he knows the baby isn't in there
He's trying to find out where the baby is. He doesn't actually need them to find that out
Oh, just get his hands on a fob and they'll be out. Oh, yeah
Yeah
Oh my god, I completely forgot about that
They have no leverage. They're dead. That's it. That's the end of that. That's it. There's no reason for him to keep them alive
Kara says they might have jammed
uh their comms
Like the good guys comms and it's like wait, that's something they can do. Why didn't they do that to begin with?
And it's like that earlier that would have saved life exactly the empire would have accidentally saved quill by doing something that's perfectly normal
So, um
I don't even know if we need to explain this one
But uh primary directive to nurse and protect drives into a group of 50 stormtroopers with the baby
Baby is literally in a sense of mass dude this shot right here
I randomly jumped to it and it just sums up. Uh this moment perfectly
That's what all nurses
I was when I had a babysitter when I was really young
They'd strap me to their chest all the time and go gun fighting
Lotta we had some great times. It was it was great. It builds
It is dumb on so many levels if this droid is working off probability and percentages
What is the greatest way to protect the baby take it back to the ship or take it to mandalorian who's in a bunker?
like getting yeah, there's a
Seems to be aware that the stormtroopers are coming
Like like he knows them all the way down. Yeah. Yeah
This is this one is indefensible. It's so funny. It's literally like a meat shield
Who needs armor they got a baby it was bad code. It's like he thought the baby shouldn't
Uh
What he first arrives
He's like does this weird thing where he so you got all these stormtroopers taking aim
There's a lot and all ig does
Is flip around and you get shot one two, three four five and that's it in the chest and it just doesn't do anything
And then he does these crazy moves. Wait, I thought stormtroopers can't shoot. Look how many stormtroopers there are. Oh my god
But they were nailing him while he was moving from that far away on a speeder
Nailing him in the chest center mass not regularly though. Most of the shots are missing
Still which shouldn't considering that he's headed
I mean look you cannot like the stormtroopers aim in the mandalorian series is indefensible because they miss point blank mandalorian
They miss just so much it's insane he's standing around walking slowly. How do you miss that?
And he had his back towards one and they and they got like
intense, um
So this is there's a problem in that a bit later on which annoys me greatly because but i'll point it out when it comes up
So this is becoming a very big trope action scene happens and we have to take it piece by piece because a lot of stupid things happen
um
Our entire team pour out of their defensive position to start shooting in the open screw cover
Screw cover
Again, this is almost shockingly funny
How much of a bunker this kind of is yeah, yeah, look look at this poor shot i've got this is perfect
That's a shooting gallery right there they they could have just offloaded at this point
They distracted their old frazzled of ages and she's got a rapid fire blaster one shot from that
You know rapid fire blaster machine gun thing should technically be enough to kill a stormtrooper because her armor sucks
And so she just offloaded in a straight line in uniforms
She exactly and if she just rapid fire in a flat horizontal line, she could always take all of them out with a
So that's the first stupid second stupid is when they pour out the stormtroopers decide to send a team
To the right side of their building or left side whichever way you're standing from
To break in with grenades or like a sticky grenade thing
And then to just assault whoever is remaining inside the place, which is just strange to me. It's like
They're all attacking you in the open and you want to go break in and shoot the ones who stayed in. Okay
And it's just kara and if you guys remember
She sits behind something going like oh, no, they're attacking me
And then she just decides at one point right time to kill them all shoot back. Yeah, and she just kills them all
In terms of like creating an action scene. It's just so bizarre to me. I was like, oh shit
All right, I guess she just decided to win
Yeah, good decision. Um throughout you get these shots of car weathers just like going boom
And people falling over and he just survives the whole thing. I don't know how
Just doesn't get shot at I just I just feel like if there were all of these stormtroopers everywhere
It's over someone would get shot
Someone would get hit standing out in the open
like this
Yeah, um
then
uh, we we find out the
Mando so they have this
Sentry turret
And I presume its ammo box is next to it. And if you shoot that with one blaster, it blows up the whole thing
I think this is a significant design flaw
like
You think?
And they bring out that gun
They have literally just put down a bomb in the center of their formation
That the guys in the bunker at any time a single shot. They could have just shot that power, you know box and
Wiped out everyone. It's like
Holy crap. Is that real? You know?
Yeah, and i'm trying to find a good shot of it, but like
Look at that
This is the kind of thing that if they had shot this with the 50 stormtroopers outside
You probably would have nuked a third of them
Yes
Look at that
One shot does it
Look at that
I just I almost feel like if you're accurate enough accurate enough to make that shot
Why don't you just shoot him in his non-armored?
Nobody shoots him in his normal auto pass. That's how it works. Okay. It's not allowed. I forgot the rules
Well, you know like maybe the armor has some technology that attracts the bolts to the armor instead of the things
That's um
Yep
Technology it's magic next up mando is willing to die because he doesn't want to
Anyone to see his face. I think that's silly
That depends how
How did mando's head get fucked up? He has the armor the best car
Like yeah, there's no scratch or dent on the helmet. So maybe it was yeah. Yeah, there are scratches and dents
And there's a shot like shrapnel is going to get through there
It's unironically the same criticism we had against batwoman when she fell over with a helmet on that was intact. She somehow hit her eye
Yeah, we got the mando hit back up helmet is like yeah, but that's not a problem because he's got best car armor
Yeah, it's all very strange
But um
So the argument would be he believes so fully in his creed about how no one should see his face that he's willing to
Let that kill him and i'm just like I think the whole point would be that his love and desire to keep baby
Yoda safe would supersede pretty much anything
Also, we've established an episode four. He doesn't really care all that much about people seeing his face
He thinks that's that is caring about it
But like yeah, I I just think it's bullshit that he's willing to abandon this mission because he doesn't want people to see his face
Like oh, come on, dude
Uh, also baby Yoda doesn't heal him
for reasons
Hey, baby Yoda remember when you that guy was gonna fucking kill him and you healed him
And then and then comes the bit the hilarious bit they make this huge deal out of a flame trooper
He's coming. He's big. He's got special armor colors and he's got a flamethrower. We're all screwed now
He's coming. He stands in the doorway. He's about to blast them all and you just think
Okay, what could possibly save them? It's like well, let's go from lowest to highest
Could it be feasible for mando to look to to the flamethrower hold up his pistol and shoot him even though he's kind of delirious
Like yeah, possibly give me old tom hanks. Yeah, why not?
Uh cara, she's actually perfectly healthy and has access to many weapons. She should probably be able to shoot him
uh, you think
And then we get really bad when we know that car weathers is looking at the guy and he's holding two pistols
And he's just like oh my god. What do we do?
Yeah
And car weathers looks at baby yoda like dude, can you do something about this?
Like you got this bro
I could say this all
Baby yoda you're already shot dude. Come on
Um, yeah, and then and then of course you've got the nurse droid who's dependent on saving baby yoda at any point
It's like he's busy frazzling the grape
But i'm pretty sure he could use one arm immediately to just shoot the guy but nope
It's all down to baby yoda. He's got a yeah, you would think that with all the stuff
We've seen ig 11 do that. This would be just an easy pot shot for him
and so
Yeah, even cara is like, I don't know what she's doing in this scene. She's like, oh my god. Look at it
She's like, ah
What's happening? Oh my god
Oh, no
The fire and yeah, so they all they all would have died if baby yoda hadn't used the force here
Kind of insane to be honest with you
Only they had guns to fire back upon them. If only
And yeah, there's the just the basic question of does yoda does he know what fire is
Like does he know that that's something you want to deflect if you don't I mean
Possibly isn't it feasible the baby is just like oh, that's pretty ah birds
Like maybe he's had there's a good chance over the 50 years that he's in drag
Fire at some point accident with a stove. Yeah, okay
I'll call babies do that's a um
The droid chooses to stay behind and help mando instead of sticking with the baby. I refuse to believe that's a thing
Yeah, it's programmed to protect the baby as far as i'm considering the droid should be like well, uh by I guess
To fulfill my programming
But instead he's like I could save you even when bad is about to kill him he threatens to and he's like, please don't do that
It's the end of the droid matter just convince him that it should be okay. I don't like this seat
I don't like this episode at all
Um, then we see his face boo
Boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo boo
Um, it's it's also weird that I don't think it was bad that the audience was showing his face
That's I don't see that as a night
Set up for it is a bit silly of course, but I I don't like the reveal here
I I kind of wish we never saw it ever
The most the most I would have wanted is in the season finale his mask is like cracked away or something and we can see
I would have preferred that much more than just I don't know
I like how unconventional it is that we never see the protagonist hero's face like that's cool to and it's just like well
End of season one. It's like oh
Here it is. Everyone is there. All right. All right
Uh, see I don't I don't see if it's a negative or like positive. Oh
I mean i'm i'm happy to say it's my preference
Didn't boba fat and jango fat didn't they both have like basically space arming caps underneath their helmets
We don't have a boba fat, uh, well, it wouldn't matter anyway because you could just say the mando didn't
I guess this is weird that he didn't have it. You think that the mandolin would but all right
Um, why does it take so long for the empire to follow them?
If you remember a faction come in after them once they speak to the armistice. Where are they? What are they doing?
Yeah, well, they I mean there is a bit of a maze down there
No, I mean right now after the flamethrower guy went in where they're not like hey looks like he failed things
What's stopping them from just walking in now? Good boy. Yeah got some little bullet points actually that I didn't notice before
Why would they why would they burn them out when the imperial snow baby Yoda's in there?
Oh, sorry the obvious fucking flaw they're about to kill baby Yoda at that moment. Yeah. Yeah
Why they know baby the whole season with it. The whole season is built on the opposite point
And then just send in a flamethrower guy to be like just roast them all
Especially baby Yoda unless moth gideon just wants the corpse to harvest the organs. That's the only
Um
Stop all right. You don't charge the outside but the inside dna. Oh like a hot pocket
Yeah, exactly. The outside is burnt to a crisp, but the inside is still frozen. Yep
Um, uh, the next bullet point. How does fire make the flamethrooper explode?
Just seems like they'd be built to not do that, you know
Have some resistance to it. Baby Yoda didn't just deflect the fire rags. It activates
Grenade mode self-destruct. Oh, okay. Oh, I forgot you used force grenades. Didn't you know about that one?
Idiot
I gotta I don't know my cannon. I have to archive more
so
Mando is like given juice so that his head doesn't bleed out I guess
And uh when we see him he's under kara's arm
And he's limping
Until it heals him and then he won't limp anymore
Uh, so a back to spray that's like, um, isn't that in the video games?
It's like i'm fine with it being a healing agent. I don't care about that. I'm talking about the fact that he's got a head injury
That's making him limp
Oh, yep
Um, and then by the way, it's like five minutes layer. He's not limping anymore. And i'm just like, yeah, okay, whatever
Heels fast fine
Oh
Yeah, our favorite moment all the mandalorians are dead
Like what the hell hey, what the hell it's weird
A can from 10 feet away, but they slaughtered the mandalorians
So the only thing that I could think of and it's not fully answered because we don't know if the mandalorian helmets actually protect them
From say poisonous gas or something because if it doesn't okay, they find the location
It's just down this, you know, stairwell on a street and just pump it full of gas and kill it. How is she alive?
She wasn't there dude, dude, she totally hid she ran away. Yeah
This was this was like a what the hell moment is like no chance if they actually tried to fight one on one
Why didn't they leave? Why didn't yeah, why we assumed that they all left because that's the
I know that I assumed that as well. I was like, well, I guess they moved on to a new planet. Nope
They're dead and then they're like how much of that armor is supposed to be beskar
I don't fucking know even if it was even if it was unarmored mandalorians versus the stormtroopers who don't have armor essentially
who are competent as hell still
still yeah, they're like
It's baffling how
They could try and say that these you know
Incomitant stormtroopers are capable of beating mandalorians and fights like yeah
like the only way I could think they could possibly try and justify it is if they had insane overwhelming numbers or something like that or
Uh, they gassed them out or killed him, you know in their sleep or something. I can get it's weird
So they're all dead lame lame lame
Yeah
And then purposely it is his fault but it's not his intention that that happened
It's a natural result that he knew what do you expect? Yeah, I get that. I should feel guilty
He instead blames carl weathers
Which is hilarious because he did to carl weathers what he's accusing carl weathers of having done to him, which isn't the truth
This this at this moment is what solidifies my dislike of mando as a character. I don't like him
He's an ass and he's not very competent either
Um, you got carl weathers who he had a happy position in being a middleman between bounty holders and bounty hunters
And this guy comes along and you're like you give him the best option ever in terms of a bounty who's gonna
He's gonna pay him a lot of money and he back stabs you by
Not only taking the money but then uh taking the bounty for himself
And he kills you as far as he's concerned you're he's surprised to find you're alive
Uh, you were lucky you had your money in your pocket. So his his blast didn't kill you and then
Uh, the mandalorians that fucked you and your guild over by the way killed all of your bounty hunters or at least a significant portion of them
Um, they got obliterated by the empire while you've been under the empire's thumb now
Thanks to mando screwing everything up and then mando accuses you of having killed these guys
After mando's the reason that you lost your entire guild and your position as guilds middleman like it infuriates me
It's like do you know what you did to him and you don't even seem to care
Yeah, not a single moment of remorse
I they're just all right. I guess they're all dead
And this is a direct result of a choice that I made that I knew not to mention how they're just too stupid to leave
I mean we kind of discussed a bit of the interaction of what mandalorian did to car wearers when he you know
Backed out of the bounty thing because I don't think mandalorian was in the moral
You know wrong in protecting baby yoda and betraying the bounty hunter guild
um
And so I don't think too much, you know
like
Guilts should fall on mandalorian for that action in you know in its own context
Um, we can't just do that
Like they have loads of systems and rules in place by doing what mando does it has severe repercussions for everyone who may or may not agree
That's the right thing to do at the time. Well, well, but saving one life at the cost of many other lives
And this is assuming that he doesn't do anything differently when it comes to him saving the world
Yeah, he was supported by the mandalorians
That was basically shown by them backing him up and and protecting him and also the uh, the smith lady who says you're
I'm talking about the guilds right now. Not even the mandalorians
Okay. Well, you know the guilds they're doing bounty hunters to get innocent babies and stuff. They're not morally good people
I don't think it's a bad thing that mandalorian
No, yeah, no i'm suggesting that mando's choice because he's entered into a contract to be a part of the guild what he does
Is going to have severe consequences for a lot of other people's lives. It does loads of people die as a result of his choice
I'm not even talking about the mandalorians yet. That's another part of this whole responsibility thing
I find it ridiculous that he's taking a moral outrage with carl weathers who carl weathers this whole time has just been trying to survive
I don't think he wants to kill babies. It's just bounties
Non-descript the whole point of the guilds. You don't ask any questions, but yeah, but that's not a remember carl weathers didn't even like about
He didn't even know it was a baby
Yeah, yeah
Oh hang on bounty hunter system is basically already predicated on the fact that you could be grabbing an innocent person
Just based on the bounty and so it's not a moral system at all
We don't know what the guild we don't know what jobs the guilds take
well, the fact that they took one from the
I get imperial and outlaw
They didn't know it was
No, but the
Okay, I think we're missing the point here. Mando's
Mando's entered into the agreement. He is on board. They are a society a group
They have rules mando's agreed to them and then he just betrays them when he decides that it's morally right to
As much as he may be wrong or right that fucks over everybody else in the group
If you if you didn't want to engage if you didn't want to engage and protect potentially it all acts then go away
It would have been better you would wait me weighing up you would have to weigh up
He didn't do it. He didn't do that for a moment. He stabbed him in the back in a second
He didn't care. That's what bothers me carl weathers. This seems to just be like a
contract deliverer
Hang on. No, he did have to weigh it up because he actually delivered it and then he was
Well, no, that was his job. He just decided nah, i'm gonna take it back actually
He was in a matter of in a conflict. Obviously, please don't tell me you're actually arguing. That's a moral good
He got the money and his items and then he took the baby back
He got so basically like the baby it would have meant
It would have meant so much more if he gave up the armor for the baby
But no he actually got his armor forged and then he got the baby back
Yeah, well what taking money out of the hands of corrupt any bad imperials or like that doesn't
I don't think we want to go that way with morals
Well, no, like these are criminals. That's what we call blood money
no, they're criminals and they're outlaws and stuff and so
Screwing over criminals and the outlaws is not equivalent to screwing over, you know, um, uh
Honest and law abiding citizens, you know the rebels were criminals and outlaws, right?
Yeah, but one obviously had a moral, you know, uh justification the imperials don't know that
The imperials are bad and evil that just goes without saying and so again, that's not a direct equivalence
And so there it is a different thing. It's screwing it laws
Yeah, but i'm using them in the context of criminals and outlaws
Yeah, i'm using in the context that they're criminals and outlaws because they're imperials and they're a moral need
When he went back to my point
When he went back to save baby yoda, he knew what he was doing and he just went right in and did it
He didn't give like anyone a heads up
He didn't
Prepare a mess for someone you're making it you're appealing a lot to morality
The only reason you save yoda is because he saw himself in it
Do you do you imagine the amount of immoral things mandalorian's probably done up to this point is very numerous
Well, that's an assumption we don't know yeah, that was your point and I agree with it
The thing is because yeah, like at this point
It seems like most of his bounties were just grabbing. Oh, it seems that way does it? He wouldn't know would he?
That's the one that we see. I don't know it is an assumption
Neither would he he's told who it is and where they are and you'll get money for it
How is this a moral job? It's only now that he decides that he's not
This is what I know because we were given an indication of the types of jobs
He had taken when he handed in those first bounties that these were like what they were
um
That they were had a you know
Debts or something like that and they were skipping out on bail or something like that that he was actually
Supporting a type of you know, um, I thought you agree that bounty hunting is a moral
And that they can take it they they can take immoral jobs given and that he does that after he saves baby Yoda
Yeah, I agree. And so but then he decides that that's not good. No, he he follows through with it
That was the last episode we covered was episode six
He goes to free a prisoner
That the rebels have okay. Yeah, good point. Good point. Yep for money by the way for money
Yeah, he needs the money
So we're just gonna free prisoners and this is coming but all the way back to my point
Which is he's not definitive about his moral system
He simply decided this is too far and he's screwed over the entire guild because he's decided that this bounty is too far
Yeah, and I think that's a fair decision and this is why i'm so annoyed at him for
Ripping into karl weathers when all karl weathers has had to do this whole time is try and figure out how to stay alive
That's all he's been trying to do
But my point is uh, it's not an equivalent thing because
Mandalorian obviously has loyalty and uh, you know
It cares for the mandalorians and he has far less care and he doesn't hold their bounty hunters who are general. I agree
He's an asshole. No, it's just that
Um, he's obviously holds the mandalorians in far more value than the bounty hunters. Just I agree. He's an ass
What are you talking about like because you're trying to say that
His actions in causing the death of the mandalorians about hunters often the idea that he's a bounty hunter
The idea that he's like, oh the guild those bounty hunters, but one's his family and one is is not
Sorry one follows a creed
that he follows one one group is legitimately his family issue with it
Oh, but one group is when he remorse or anything when he finds out his family's been killed
Well, he's pretty angry when he's pretty angry with call weathers because he for some reason believes immediately
The call weathers is the one who did it even though he did this very action to call weathers himself
Yeah, but that's not an equivalent thing because one is his family and one is not
So why would he be bothered about the bounty hunters?
You're trying to say that is not justified in being bothered about the death of mandalorians
If they're his family first off he gets over it super quick and he blames someone who has nothing to do with it
And someone that if anything should be pissed at him
Look i'm not saying his right to blame car with us because it's not carls fault
It's the imperials, but he's trying to ascribe blame and he assumes it might have been carl, which is why he you're like
Did you do this?
It doesn't seem unreasonable and then it says no and then all right. We're fine. It's family's dead. It's all right
It's all good. Oh and and that additional part. I agree
You probably should be showing a lot more remorse by the fact that everyone's dead
Um, I just hate the fact that mando has no idea what he's done in this whole season. He just thinks he's a good guy
It's as simple as that he's not really got much accountability at all for all of his actions
Well, see, I don't think he needs to feel remorse for the death of the bounty hunters
But feeling remorse for his family the mandalorians, of course
I wish he did more for more than two minutes
Oh, yeah, I thought for it for the mandalorians completely agree not so much for the bounty hunters
Why would they have ditched all this stuff when they've kept this the empire?
Yeah, how much of it is beskar is my question. I don't even know that it matters if it's beskar or not
It's just useful armor. Surely it is
But if some is beskar that means it's like in super valuable. Yeah, you'd obviously check them all you'd think
I mean that's again
You would think that in a universe where people would want to protect the lives of themselves and their soldiers that armor would be of value
But apparently that's a fantasy world that isn't this
But he protected the cute muppet so he's the good guy
Hey, hey, it is baby yarda. I also one of my notes says mando is now responsible for the deaths of many children
Thanks. I hate it
You would think that if he
Was gonna go in there to save baby yoda
Dude, he would do something dude mando's responsible for the deaths of several potential like foundlings
All right, so I wonder about that because it's odd that the mandalorians didn't leave they knew that they were
No, I just want to
This was seasons about that like yeah. Yeah, it obviously was caused by mandalorian's actions
But the guild seemed to have supported him in that decision
That's a very important distinction right there. And so
Why didn't they leave to protect themselves as well now that they knew that they'll
Like I don't want to understate how much this should weigh on him this scene
Yeah, I think it should weigh on him a lot more than it's showing I agree there. Um
I'm talking like he's at like a two when he should be at like a 90. Yeah, like
There were many children when we saw the scene with this this community
Does he even ask about him? Nope
Well, at least I don't think so about him in the first oh, wait, wait, uh, she the smith says that some may have
Got away. That's what she says, right?
Oh, well some might have died
The virus says maybe as well
And yeah, someone just said didn't mando say they had to move the tribe in episode two was three
I just said do they forget it's like apparently
I get it. That's a big question of mine after they supported me
Well, why didn't they move they should have
Well out of this place just died
Yeah, we're just which is again. Why?
Uh scribing all the blame on mandalor. I think is not really fair
When the guilds what the mandalorian supported him and then they just chose to stick around and get all of it
It's just sure it's not all
Okay, good. I think everybody gets a piece of the dumb pie
I think it's hilarious. The armistice is incredibly casual about the fact that all of those people are dead
Her entire culture is essentially dead. At least always exists here
And why why is she still here?
How did she I wonder how much mandalorians?
Um think death is a bad thing about their creed, you know, they're all about this is the way and stuff
And so I feel like if they didn't think death was that bad, they wouldn't wear
No
No, no
But that goes the same with like samurai culture who you know felt death was one of the greatest achievements ever
So it's not like that they seek after it, but they don't necessarily mourn it, especially the practice of sepal cool
So we have examples of the real world in warrior societies
Well, that'd be great if it was in the episode
Over death as much as other societies. I'm not saying it's a universal thing
There are obviously exceptions and unique circumstances that would cause them to mourn death more than other times
But if they have a cultural practice in tradition where death is can be glorious, especially in combat
That can be justified why she's not as cut up. Yeah, but like everyone
Like you expect to be some survivors to carry on the culture well, she said some
Maybe some made it out like maybe maybe maybe the massacre wasn't totally 100 percent
Um
Yeah, I uh, I just think it's funny that she's still here
I don't I don't know why I guess she was waiting for mandalorian to show up so she could give him a jetpack
She has to make trinkets with her board. I thought she was just salvaging the
special armor
Or who?
I don't know the future rather mandalorian 30 none christ
Um, how come that is what she's doing here?
She's literally picking up the armor pieces as she goes
So is there still the storm troopers put them in a pile?
Thank goodness the storm troopers just don't seem to care about the armor and she's just going to salvage it question mark
That's bizarre. I know I like that's really seems it seems like she's playing with fire quite literally, uh by being here
Yeah, you'd think that there would be storm troopers here guarding all this stuff
Like taking inventory of all this stuff making sure they got everybody
Yep, but just no one here. They just like oh, I guess we're done
Um, she just says that like he's got to deliver baby yoda to its home world and he's like, okay
That wouldn't stop the fobs at all, so I don't know why now this means that they'll find
the all the other yodas
And is gonna get another whole culture destroyed
Yeah, but mando doesn't question this because he's fucking idiot
simpleton and he doesn't say well won't this lead them to all the baby yoda people
And you know what's weird
So there is another yoda rap in the prequels. Isn't there? Isn't there like another gentleman?
Yeah, he's on the jellied council in the first one. So
Like the race like the republic must have known about the race. It wasn't this big mystery or something
um
So it's a bit confusing as to something has been lost over time about
It's like, you know outside of the mandalorian. There was nothing particularly special about the yoda race
It's just that yoda was a good jedi amongst them. Um,
um
Stormtroopers finally catch up took him some time
Drama, it's like oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god, then ig
11 just kills them all it's like oh, yep
I've dealt with them. They did. Yeah, the I just want to say this the way
Seems really retarded. Yeah, I agree, but it is the way
What is the way?
Who are we to question? I find it fucking way. I find it hilarious. She took the time to well
Sorry, we know very little about the way like what are you finding dumb about just you can't ever take your helmet off in front of anyone else
It's very impractical, isn't it? It's like that's stupid. It's dumb
Yeah, be hard to try and figure out how that would develop naturally out of a cultural kind of tradition
As just a society of extremely ugly people it naturally
I can't stand looking at you get this helmet on while you're while you're bathing
while you're fucking
just
Everything that you do is just like it evolved out of a kinky
Kinky baby. I want you to hold that this
Um before uh, so we have the stupid fight with a blacksmith lady. No, no, no, no, no
Roll it back roll it back. She gives him the jet pack just casually
Oh, yeah, I have the um, what did mando do to earn the signet? He's why everyone's dead for the most part
And not to not to mention why are we spending so much time giving him a fucking icon for his shoulder like really?
How is this not analogous to the batwoman thing in episode three where she goes and gets her hair done while everyone's dying
God damn it
I'm a hero
And the hero's gotta look fly
And then and then he just gets handed a jet pack and it's like, oh cool
You're gonna have to earn this jet pack. It might take you a long time
Boo
Here i'll give it to this random robot
At least it's not gonna be incredibly useful moments from now, you know
Because that would be convenient. Yeah, especially if he was like an expert at it
I don't know the jet pack thing was foreshadowed enough that you know, the mandalorians have it and
That's that's what you call foreshadowing is mandalorians have a jet pack therefore foreshadowed
Yeah, but he says he wants to get one and you know, what is clearly a spare one now
Why the hell didn't we have one already?
He's the best bounty hunter in the parsec and he's the one that's allowed out right now
Where all other mandalorians have to stay below?
Why wouldn't he have a jet pack jet packs and they're underground where are they going to do?
Give him the jet pack. It's so stupid. It hurts
Well, he's got one now
They don't go with ig to kill the stormtroopers he just yeah, he just
He does stormtroopers are worthless. Um, there's only remember once he's killed those there's about I want to say 12 left
something like that
Um, why not why goes to the super duper lava adventure instead of just going back up at this point?
Yeah, I wonder because they've
gotten through a decent number of them and then the robot kills a number of them and then
Yeah, the only young lady dude, even the arm of smith can beat them six to one
She should they should just send her out to deal with well you've established that stormtroopers are worthless
Asterisk so they don't just they could go and they could have gone out the other way and just ig is worth
10,000 stormtroopers just agreed
going
And it's almost like I feel at this point the the empire should have just invested in ig units
Yes, I seem far better. Don't they that yeah, I mean almost
It's like stormtroopers are worthless
Is
Yeah, and she gets she gets her badass moment
But everyone getting their badass moments means that this and the stormtroopers getting the incompetent moments means that there's no stakes for me
I don't care. Everybody's I don't care. I know stormtroopers don't mean anything
And they things only happen because the plot wants them to happen after we if we've just said that by the way
They have that lie where they're like you got any better ideas than riding on this stowed in a river of lava
It's like yeah, go back up. Yeah
The gondola ride down the lava river sort of limits your options
So also in the um, the blacksmith fight, does she crack open a stormtroopers with a hammer? Yeah
Because that's amazing armor
It's it's basically the armor is the costume it's like that it's it's useless
It is so but how she overpowers all these people
And it's there are six of them with guns. I think one of them tries to like stab her with a gun
Yeah, I just don't even I just don't even I don't even
This is retarded
Uh, I find it funny that uh
The lava is like clearly
A stream it's going one way and they think for some reason that the gondola operator can decide whether or not they go forward or back
With his stick. I'm I'm curious what the gondola operator does
It's got a stick
And they think that the stick is deciding look at look at the way it flows depending look at the way it flows
Yeah, if the current isn't strong and you can reach the bottom of the flow
You could use the stick to pull yourself in the opposite direction
I don't think that droid's got any hope of being able to
To drive them does look pretty big and heavy though
Well, let's put it this way even if the droid was capable of getting in the other direction. Why the fuck does kara shoot it
Yeah
Because it's not listening to it. She gets upset which makes you think
It makes you think like okay, take the stick off it and use it yourself
unreasonable outbursts of rage randomly
I'm just wondering is at that time of the month
Sex sex tisms I'll be doing that. Um
So I like that she shoots the boat free and it just luckily doesn't fuck up the entire boat
Do you remember this they're like, oh yeah, she shoots it to get it. It's like she shoots it while holding a baby, by the way
No badass
I think so. Anyway, it's the package that the baby's in right?
All right, so they could free the boat, but they couldn't shoot through the grate. All right
Not to mention that you can shoot the boat free but lava doesn't affect the boat
You can shoot the boat free, but the boat is lava proof
Okay
Okay
Yeah, and I like that they ask when uh
Just just just like
This this so this comes into the whole thing now. So what is the plan? We're heading toward about 10 stormtroopers
What are our options and it's like?
Oh
I I think why don't they IJ can just go out and kill them all
Well, he does but he self-destructs to do so for some reason. Oh, that seems like oh, I don't you should just shot him with his
Blasters. Yeah, I agree. That would have been the body count is arguably triple digits at this point
I think you should just give him a blaster and say you're bulletproof. Basically go out there and just shoot them all
But they don't sort of arbitrary because one hit to the head took him out before as well
They say he said they say like uh, he's gonna take him out and they say you don't have that kind of firepower
It's like first of all, we know that he does
Like I don't even know what universe you're in like he definitely has that kind of firepower
Um, and they say and he says victory through combat is impossible. It's like what?
Where have you been we've defeated four times. What's out there? Like what do you mean?
He did literally ride into
Like how is there 50 or something? I feel like they're ready to fully think about their options
Remember mando has a jetpack so he could fly out and distract them for you
Yeah, you're wearing impenetrable armor too. So you don't even worry not not that you should worry because stormtroopers can't hit for shit. Anyway
You had options here. I'm sorry you had options
Um lucky yeah, I guess right after go ahead lucky ig can withstand lava
Yeah, that doesn't melt well, I mean any wires like that one
I was willing to give a pass on it because it like is presumably made out of something stronger than regular steel like juris steel
And we don't know how easy that melts in life. So I was like, I don't know
This part infuriates me the troopers don't shoot him for ages
And then I guess worse he reveals his self-destruct and then they all put their guns down
Yeah
So I just like everything's backwards first of all you shoot him the second you see him that's that's what you do
But no, they're like, oh, this is interesting. Look at this droid
Um, i'm trying to military grade bounty hunter droid
He's just walking out
Yeah reveals his thing and oh, let's put our guns down. It's like whoa. Why would you show me this?
Just just explode jesus
Oh, that's a what it's blinking red and it's going to self-destruct put your guns down everybody
It is insane
Oh head met wall just said, uh, couldn't they have taken the bomb out of ig and just like thrown it?
I just shot him in the head before he even got close
Oh, well that mean like they could hit him
Could have just mando could have just grabbed it and thrown it out there and remember mando's got his little bombs
Why couldn't he have used them? Why didn't he use one of those? He has so many options
Just throw one or two while you zoom out with your jetpack
And yeah, the the the explosion kills all the troopers and we're done only one guy left
So gideon starts shooting at them even though they have baby yoda and the whole fucking point of this season
Is to collect baby yoda alive?
Well, no, the bounty was to bring him alive or dead. Oh the the
There's nothing left to be blows him up to
If he wants dna maybe you could scrape it off
You'll search in the lava you'll get something yeah a little chod
And yeah, and just the preference is alive they made that clear
okay, um
I'm pretty sure mando's arm should have broken off when he was uh attached to the ship and getting pulled along
That's some hero plot protection that was a lot of instant like
Yeah
Hero strength suddenly. Yeah, just just hero strength
But I mean, oh look that is something we're seeing like in most
Hero movies. There's no way you are not holding on
but you're getting whipped around by uh
TIE fighters spinning around you are no no you are
No, you're out that one
I don't have too much issue is being heroic and heroes can do amazing feeds and so that one's easy stop making that argument
No, it's true. No, hang on. Hang on. Hang on. It's true though. We see that in so many movies and tv shows
It's just a standard that it's easier to accept that heroes doing a heroic
What do you mean?
Is that I'm not accepting it
Yeah, that you don't get you don't get magical protection because you're the protagonist
We talked about this extensively in the last
Yeah, no, I know
But I thought we settled on the whole idea that you select the protagonist because they're special
Not that the protagonist is special because they are the protagonist because they're selected
All right. That's a chicken and egg. I get stories. No, it's not a chicken and egg argument. It's not
No, it's not
The protagonist is not in debt with special ability chad. What do you think plot armor is?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, this is the thing and that's what I was saying before is
Plot armor is always going to exist in a story. It's a matter of you can sell it believably. No
Yes, there is no. Yes. There is it your job as a writer is to make the illusion that it's not there
But everything is thoughts. No, nothing is real heroes exist. No
We're not talking about reality. We're talking about a story
Need to
Everything is contrived in a story because you're making it up
So your job as a writer is to create the illusion that it feels believable. Okay, that's the whole point
And so everything is going to be plot armor
It's a matter of if you can make it bad or good and your job as a good writer
Is to make it believable and for it to not yeah
We might be getting bogged down in definitions because you might think plot armor is universally an unacceptable thing
Then it's only plot armor when it is unbelievable plot armor is when the character
Basically is saved by the plot because they otherwise would have been killed
Okay, so
Honest question shadow have you ever watched or experienced a story where there wasn't plot armor?
Um because everything is plot if i'm using the definition of when you're constructing a story
protagonist actions then
Plot like for for instance the capacity that a main character is strong enough to fight in a one-run fight
That he doesn't get killed and is able to beat his opponent. That is technically a type of plot
All right, we're digging him, but it's justified more by the fact that he's capable of doing it
Okay, so then then we're just using different definitions because it seems like
Um, well, but couldn't I use yours I could extrapolate a lot from yours ray one because she has plot armor
Yeah, and that would be a bad case of using
That's bad and this is okay
No, but because you can take it on a case by case and figure out which is more justified in the narrative for them to survive
But it is a narrative. It is a plot and so
Ultimately, it's always going to be
So if you can justify it in the idea
Yes, the universe is a real universe
Hang on. Hang on. You're talking about the whole universe
What we're talking about in stories in general is the idea the protagonist
The idea is if no, but in this mandalori and he absolutely is the protagonist
What the point is trying to be made is the idea that when you when you're telling a story the idea is
The idea is to convince somebody that it's real and so effectively the way that you're treating it is
This is a story that is happening
We are presenting the and I just because proper definitions
You're not trying to convince the real that's real because obviously everyone knows it's not real
Your job is to make it believable and feel real that's I think
What i'm trying to get at is the idea that like when we talk about the story
But you're not meant to be thinking a guy sat in his office and wrote this down
It's meant to be like a gateway into a world that could exist and in star wars
That there is no like protagonist if like the star wars universe existed
There is no protagonist like that. There are characters who inhabit it. The protagonist is from our perspective
They're the person who's been selected to be the focal point of the story
So like mandalorian is not a protagonist
He's a guy and from our perspective
He's the protagonist because it's his show that we're watching
But if if if we treat it like it's real he's no more special than anybody in particular
He's just a person that we decided to focus on. I disagree completely
You can make protagonists more special based on training upbringing, you know
We agree with both of those
No
This is the chicken egg
No
This is the chicken and egg thing because you can choose to give a character those
Backgrounds qualities to give them more special abilities because you've chosen them to be the protagonist
And so that's that point is just one of those things lacks in universe explanation
One of those you can completely outside of the universe. No, no, but you were trying to say that you uh
like this is why the chicken egg thing is weird to me that you're even arguing the point because
You're saying that you will not ascribe unique qualities to a character because they're the protagonist
Because they have the unique qualities the idea is that you're trying to treat the characters like they're real people who
Existed before you decided to make the story
So ie mandalorian is a guy who has these certain abilities and things like that
And he is going to be the main character of our story not all right mando is going to be our main character
So let's figure out what we're trying to, you know set up is out
I think wait, wait, wait, let me let me try it
I want to try something
So if we were to if earth if we were able to have everything in earth was recorded from the start to the end
We get a ghost cam we follow christopher lee from life to death and we make you know
All of it is we cut out the boring bits and we line it up to be narratively relevant
And then we've completed it. We we process it and we make a story out of like an actual movie
You wouldn't like say for example, he does something amazing in world war ii
In some way shape or form and you're like he did that because he's the protagonist we all be like well, no
No, no, he's got like loads of training. It's all justified. This is all very real. This actually happened
He's not the protagonist of earth. He's a guy
Yeah, but yeah, but that's that really happened
I'm talking about a story that you're constructing scratch and you're trying to say that
The thing is that like the reason why this argument doesn't work
Like of course you can choose to give a character unique traits based on the fact that the protagonist is a writer
And to disprove your thesis all you need to do is have someone do that somewhere in history and still write a good story
And of course that can happen. Yes
It's because they're protagonists like this will work better if the protagonists will have these
I'm less concerned with that part. I'm more concerned with
You're willing to give passes to people like mando for doing ridiculous things because they're the protagonists. That doesn't even make sense
No, that um
Mandalorian has had more training. Okay, that's different. What you're arguing is that's a different argument entirely
Yeah, but generally like that's to me is very much the same argument because no it's not
Because when I say he's the protagonist i'm saying is if like it's a given fact
Generally, it is that they are more exceptional than the average person and not necessarily
Not necessarily, but in most cases especially mandalorian's case
He is generally more exceptional than the average person stop stop stop. You're using a fully different argument now
We're talking about he's achieved something that's physically impossible for his species and you're like he's a protagonist
That's got nothing to do with what training he has. Yeah, but in general, you know, storytelling and stuff like that
You can get away
If you can execute it right for the hero to get away with things that should generally realistically be physically impossible
You can sometimes get away with it no do it and correctly you think that that's never the case because I I don't think
Until until improved wrong. No
I feel like there would be many movies you have watched where the protagonist has done something
Should be physically impossible that you didn't even notice as a flaw
That would be that would be on me
If rags pointed out in like buffy or whatever and then i'd be like, oh, yeah, that is a problem
This is this is a this is good because you've accepted that it does happen. Okay, and that if you don't know
If you can pull it off in a subtle way that is not gonna throw people out of the story and
And then it can enhance the story
You can be justified in choosing that option for the effect that it can give I can make that justification for any kind of flaw
Yeah, but sometimes you can justify something for the awesome factor if it works
The knife disappeared in tlj because if it didn't she would have died
That's a clear one. It's a clear one where it doesn't okay. No, it does. She would have died and she's the protagonist
We can't have that happen
Yeah, or you could just not have the you know dagger in the hand in the first place. No, it doesn't matter
She's the protagonist. So it's fine. You can do things that are impossible so you can survive impossible scenario
So an example of contrivances that keep the protagonist alive when luke is trying to get off the death start
Okay, this is justified very easily that there are enough ships somewhere that um, there's a ship you can find to get away
But ultimately that will be a contrivance because it's the choice of the rider to decide that there were enough ships
It's not contrived at all. This is perfectly reasonable
It can just as easily be chosen by the rider that all the ships were damaged and it was too late before they everyone had it
You know that would be contrived
What do you mean? There's no reason to assume the entire hangar bay has exploded
Why would that have happened that would take too long to get from whereas in the throne room to the hangar bay before it explodes
Why would that be the case emperor palpatine must have a system in place to get him out of there quick if he needs it
Are you sure why not wouldn't it be more contrived from not to but see
No, I don't think you know where the throne room is and however long it takes to get around the death star luke doesn't know
He doesn't have a blueprint of the place. So that would be easy for him to get lost
And so the thing is when you make decisions like that, it's not a problem because it's easy to justify
But if we're going to be honest about that's not the same as mandalorian surviving impossible scenarios
If we're being honest about the nature of storytelling is that everything is a choice from the writer
okay, and the the goal of the writer is to
um
Make things believable even though ultimately none of it is fine
But that's not how anyone colloquially uses the term contrived. We're talking about
Maybe i'm using the wrong. I think maybe i'm using the wrong word terminology. I think you're using the term that should be arbitrary
Possibly possibly I guess like I don't really if it's um
You know, I don't want to when i'm when i'm consuming a piece of media think somebody wrote this
I want to be thinking that it's something that actually happened all of the flaws we've been highlighting
I've been trying to offer like they did this so that they could have this and when I say they
Someone you should be like, what do you mean today? It's like i'm obviously referring to the writers
Yeah, that's that's the problem is like whenever something like this happens. It takes me out of it
Because when i'm when I watch like saving private right and everything is just working
It doesn't feel like i'm watching a movie. It feels like i'm following the story of these characters who could have really existed
And could have really gone on this journey. I like yeah, they don't get hit sometimes when you know
They might have been able to get hit but like that's that's just you know, that happens that could happen. That's feasible to me
This is my point the thing is they were able to make that believable
but ultimately for instance when in saving private ryan where they're um
trying to take the um
That hill where that has the bunker there and one of the guys get shot
The fact that the rider chose that one of the minor characters got shot and not the main character like tom hanks
Is a choice from the rider ultimately if i'm using it, right?
Is that that is a contrivance because it's a choice from the rider and it's no it's a type of plot armor
But it's a believable type of I would
so the difference
the difference is that
The difference is all of them could have survived all of them could have died two of them could have died
Four of them could have died one of them could have died any of all of these are possible
The writer has complete freedom mando surviving being pulled along by a tie fighter from a wire
This is not happening. His arm is broken at best
Um, yeah, well i'm not saying it's not a stretch i've never said that but i'm saying it's easier to accept
Yeah, exceptional things when it's a uh, particularly trained or exceptional person
Yeah, i'm not gonna knock your suspension of disbelief is entirely on you
Yeah, yeah
And so I guess it might be how you approach it individually going back to the saving private ryan thing where it could be anyone
My whole point about the plot armor thing was that technically that is a type of plot armor
You were protecting the protagonist from getting shot in by a purely
Like arbitrary decision by the rider that he doesn't want their main main character to be killed at that point
That is a type plot armor, but it's believable and it's very easy to accept and you're able to maintain the illusion
There's a lot of stuff that works in favor of that a captain is going to be
Yeah, a captain is going to be better at fighting in a war than like a medic
So it's not like it's totally unsubstantia. It's not like it's far more believable
Exactly. Exactly. So this is my point if you can justify plot art it can work
It's not plot armor
It's already justified that not everybody on the beach gets shot
See, I don't know because if it's an element of the plot
That is a choice from the rider and the only reason why the main character is not dying is a choice from the rider
um
I think yeah
It'll come down to our definitions plot armor because if you think plot armor only is defined by an unacceptable
Protection or then my you know, it's impossible or harshly unlikely protection
You know if somebody if the main character is like two feet away from an explosion and they live it's like wow
If you weren't the main character, you probably would have died, you know, it's that kind of thing
Yeah, that's what we all use it for
Just something never doesn't in any moment happen to a character that isn't bad doesn't mean it's plot
It's not plot armor when a character is walking down a forest and a tree doesn't fall on them
Seattle like when I hear plot armor, I have generally like in this context
I was thinking things that protect the character due to just choices in the plot and I was applying it that way
And so if you'd like to find it your way, then what i'm saying doesn't apply at all. So so
So contrivance means for our purposes contrivance means a device especially in literary or artistic
Composition which gives a sense of artificiality
It's the thing that breaks you out of it the thing that makes you go. Oh, yeah, this was made by somebody
Yeah, this isn't a real mistake. Do you feel that yeah
Do you feel that there's a element of subjectivity to what you does?
What is determined what breaks a person? Um, it can be well, it just depends on what we're specifically talking about
What breaks them out of it is for sure, but if the character does something that's impossible
Then it doesn't really matter what I think
because
Yeah, but if um, uh, you're able to pull it off in such a way that it doesn't break most people out of the story
And it enhances it in some other way. That might be a an appropriate exchange or sacrifice to get the coolness
I think you can get coolness without breaking these things in almost every scenario. It's ever used
I mean, yeah, that's that's what every scenario writing is good writing is when you manage to find a way to make something really cool
unless you're talking about because remember they're only in those scenarios because
There are other elements to that. There are other elements to writing that you need to like expediency and stuff like that
If you can achieve a cool factor by doing something simple and it's it pushes the limit
But it doesn't break it and most audiences will be fine
I guess uh, my question would be shabby
Would would you disagree that it wouldn't be better in every instance to do something that makes sense and is still cool
As opposed to something that doesn't make sense, but is cool. Would it always be preferable to go?
You would need to take it out. Yeah, no, I agree
You need to take it case by case and determine it on an individual thing if you can always do it
Yeah, if you can but sometimes it it might be more expedient and or it will take too much writing
Place there arbitrarily
So if they're in a situation where you can't get them out of it without appealing to change it a contrivance or a plot armor
Or something like that then and this is no small feat by the way
This is an interesting this is an interesting experience
So say you're in that and the only way that you could fix it is by rewriting most of the story
Or if you can fit in a way to protect the protagonist
Yeah, like even in a cool way or something like that that pushes the limit
It might draw some people but most of the people it'll be fine
All right, that might be a valuable exchange that you could be willing to make if it saves you from having to rewrite half of the story
What happened that made you have to do that story two pages
Well, hang on hang on
There are times when you're writing a story and you're you know
Over halfway through and you could run into something that is fundamentally broken. Trust me. It happens
I mean, yeah, I'd say the harsh
I was gonna say the harsh reality is you're gonna have to commit to rewriting
Yeah, no, sometimes you can salvage it and you don't ruin the story in any measure
It might it might it might push it might
Yeah
No
Thing is if this is only one small potential floor and the rest of the story is really really good
That's an exchange that can be appropriately made then go back to start being good
Yeah, I guess that's the thing I just disagree like fundamentally for me whenever i'm approaching a writing issue if I can't fix it
Then yeah, like it's got to go like that's that's just how it is for me
Like it's just got to go if it can't be fixed
Um, but that that's that's different in terms of methodology because that's not really like whatever methodology somebody decides
This one's not like a small
Representation of mando's strength like this allows him to defeat gideon the boss of the season
Does he not does he boost in the direction to kind of reduce the whiplash?
He like he shoots the thing and then he gets dragged along
I would need to see it to see
Yeah, but that is a defense on my phone is that you know a small boost that you might not even be able to see
Yeah, he's just getting
geforce and stuff
It's kind of funny actually
Yeah
Oh
Look at him. He's his arms are coming off of his
Oh, hang on. Hang on. Hang on. If if we go back
You could actually measure the acceleration force from where he's stationary and then when he goes
I'll be interested. I'll be interested to get a scientific breakdown
But um
Is there joints in the armor or mesh told together? There are ways people could try and justify the fix for it
I don't and ultimately and ultimately
Ultimately, I don't think it is uh, like fear a lot of people. I don't think it's a episode breaking event
That is what most people think. Yeah, we're not
This is important like even if you're just trying to say that this is an objective floor
Okay, as the writers they might have been willing to make that trade if it's cool and stuff and i'm not trying to
Objectively, I was gonna say that that's a lot of the reasoning for why things happen in the sequel trilogy is that it looks cool
Oh, yeah, yeah, and I like and some and this is the thing I think it's a scale
Okay
I don't think it's either one or the other like the
Retarded idea of having the star destroy is buried to get a cool shot of it being
Raised and out of the ground the only way that we can really find out why they decided to have them buried
Is that that cool shot of them coming out of the ground?
But it is so dumb on so many levels that it's impossible. What if most people are okay with it?
I'll be interested to find out but what if most people were okay with it
I would be i'd want to find out if that most people are okay with it. It's a hypothetical scenario
Yeah, just like just like with mandalorian's thing. It doesn't make it realistic. I'm not saying it reduces the floor by any means
So the amount of people who are fooled by it or not doesn't actually impact what actually happens on screen
No, no
Um, because obviously if that pulls out way too many people and I think it has by all the people complaining about it
You can say is like no, that's not really big
What do you mean?
It's it doesn't it doesn't matter how many people have bought into it or believe it or even point it out
These things are independent. I want to I want to highlight that weapon being missing
I I would hazard a guess that 99 of audiences didn't even notice
And yet it's one of the most significant errors in tlj. It's a huge mistake. Yeah, it's massive
But most people wouldn't even have noticed
I'm not really i'm not keen. Well, no, hang on
It's an interesting thing because how many people would have noticed that the dagger was kept in and it was holding back
I think I probably missed that too
Yeah, maybe so that would still be a mistake wouldn't agree just yeah, of course it would of course the idea is that it's
Let's see again. These are far more agree. Yeah, these are far more egregious kind of well
The reason that's egregious is the realism
Yeah
These are far more egregious flaws in realism with nowhere near the payoff that you might want to get out of it
Which is why they are far less justified. They can be identified as inexcusable flaws
Where there are some things that are unrealistic that you could try and excuse
If it works and it pays off
Well, I guess um, I guess the thing would be is the only example I can think of
Like
Yeah, a Jackie Chan fight scene. He gets so many hits in the head that he should have a concussion and he wouldn't be able to survive
but
For the sake of a long drawn out enjoyable fight scene. We can suspend our disbelief far easier and
Except that he is getting pummeled in the head and
If I see him getting hit in the head so much that I think he should have a concussion
Then my suspension of disbelief's gone. I guess so
But for most people that's not the case. What if it was and they're willing to make that sacrifice
That would be a problem, but it's not right because most people
But have you honestly ever heard of anyone complain about a Jackie Chan fight scene that is getting hit in the head too much
It's not a complaint that I just did. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, it was just me right now
I'm the only one and i'm bringing it up to state
Yeah, but this is the thing i'm bringing it up to state that this is in reality something that is unrealistic
But for the sake of an enjoyable fight scene to make it drawn out more so we can enjoy the move and everything like that
No, that's an that's an appropriate sacrifice
For you and for you, but it is an appropriate sacrifice to make a more enjoyable fight scene overall
So it's okay to do the plot armor thing when enough people are fooled by it
I guess um
What i'm trying to go on if it is not if there's nowhere near
Point that um, uh, it it breaks it like because this is not comparable to the dagger things once you see it
It's sorry
But you're saying me you're never going to be able to enjoy a Jackie Chan fight scene now because he gets hit
That seems to be the implication. Do you have a problem with it?
The implication that I can never enjoy any Jackie Chan fight scene whether or not you can enjoy it is separate from whether or not
Can you accept that it's that like is it too unrealistic for you to enjoy it depends on the fight
Depends on the individual fight. Um, uh, any Jackie Chan movie rumbling
I don't really I don't think i've I haven't I can't really even name a Jackie Chan movie i've seen it's been so long
If i've seen any of them
Besides this is actually uh locking out the potential that we could fix them as in have him hit in the head less
And maintain the fun of the fight. Why don't you write him to get hit in the head so much?
Because sometimes it creates suspense that is getting hit back
We don't have to have him hit in the head to do that
Yeah, but getting hit in the head is another place and he's getting worn down
But well, yeah
But isn't that having your cake and eating it you're having him hit in the head because it's going to be dangerous for him
But you're simultaneously hoping nobody will care about the fact that he should be concussed
Yeah, but the thing is that's exactly what as most people don't care that is getting kicked in the head so much
Yeah, but most people so then why bother so this is what I mean about expediency
This is what I mean about expediency. Um
Because it would be more difficult to create suspense in trying to reconstruct the whole fight scene where he's never getting hit
Or you just get him hit a couple of times make it that he just shrugs it off
And you're able to achieve the same result with less work
I don't want to advocate for like not working as hard
Like I don't I don't know like I feel like it'd be a better idea to um to always encourage
Going for a solution that won't have a problem that will still get the intended effect. I don't really think it's impossible
Yeah, I don't feel like if i'm writing a story I should be like, yeah, this is a problem
But most people probably won't notice it so i'll keep it. Oh, that's not necessary
I want to say i'm saying you should try and fix it, but there are times
I'm not saying this the universe. I actually agree with you guys that you should always try and fix all problems if possible
But there are times in which you can actually honestly and effectively
weigh up the pros and cons and
Sometimes it might actually be effective to do something that is actually unrealistic to achieve a different end like with the jacket
Bad then you're acknowledging there's bad. Do you want to eliminate that?
Unless let's let's do it right now. Is jetpack should have been active throughout the whole scene if it were we could believe this
much easier
Yeah, I I agree, right done completely agree there. Yeah
His arm is out there
Yeah, it's for me as soon as the wire attaches he activates the jetpack as well and he's just following the ship
That would work with the wire directing him. Yeah, that would fix it. But as it stands it's not he's the protagonist
So it's okay. It's no it's a fuck up
No, but that it doesn't discount my point that and I think it's more
My point is emphasized more with the Jackie Chan type of thing
Is there a more appropriate or easy way to build suspense in the fight scene with him not getting it at all?
and I think getting hit having him hit back is
An effective part in the narrative of the fight scene
Um, well, you only said to avoid getting on the head over and over again
You can get hit no because that can make him come off as too, uh op and that is too dominating
Well, we'd have to see right to struggle because with mandalorian, we have our example and we can talk through it
We don't have the Jackie Chan fight scene on screen right now
We can't even suggest alternatives to this potential where he should be concussed. Like we don't know
Maybe we'll do it for a future. Well, this is what i'm saying. Is that like as fringey just said like don't give up
Let's let's figure this out
I feel like yeah, and so my point is in terms of the flaw not fixing it
I don't know. Even though there's a good easy fix for the
Doesn't mean that there's always is and I think you have to approach
You're always in those bad scenarios because you wrote themselves to me. Yeah, that's the important part
Yes, you literally said yourself that every all of it is the right
But I was looking at it in the perspective of a fight
Yeah, but it has to apply equally to everything
Fighting has writing in terms of yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Yeah and choreography and stuff. Unfortunately, I have to go poo
So i'll be back in a second. Yeah, it's just um
I think that uh, I would prefer to advocate for um
Always trying to find the solution that is as opposed to the idea of like I got a deadline shit
Um, you know
We got to do it like this because this will mostly work
Like people will mostly not notice this but it's a problem that I I am even aware of the fact that it's a problem
You know as opposed to like balancing up whether or not
You know
You have a character who does something that's kind of crazy
But possible as opposed to this where he's going to get his arms ripped out of his shoulders
I want to address
Someone left a comment saying it would be pretty lame if our main characters had zero plot armor and just die unceremoniously from a stray bullet
So you don't have to make plot armor to prevent your characters from dying from stray bullets
Depends on how you define plot armor again
Well plot armor is would you?
Because I mean the fact that you don't have people who don't get shot in the army have plot armor
Yeah, we're not talking about that though. We're talking about a story
So the difference the literal difference is someone wrote it versus someone didn't write it
Yeah, because protagonists, so it's a useless definition for this purpose
No for the story. It's absolutely essential when we're talking about plot
We're not talking about a story protagonist being alive
The thing is the difference is you get to choose who is the protagonist in a story in the real world
The people who end up surviving could be protagonists in a story if you built around them
The whole idea is completely different. You have control over a story in the real world
You just have to see things play out the way they do the idea of who the protagonist is as a matter of pov
it's not that they're specifically special because
Like they're not special in the context of the world that they exist in they're just the character that we've selected
Can be if the writer chooses that is special in the context
What what i'm saying is that it's not like not by virtue of the fact that they are the protagonist
It can be that's my point. It's the choice of the writer the writer can
Ascribe new special qualities to the character because they're the protagonists
But of course they can but in the actual story itself
It's not by virtue of the fact that they're the protagonist. They are the protagonist in the universe the world
But that's looking in universe. We're talking about the writing structure that the writer is choosing to ascribe onto the character
When we're talking about like critiquing work, it's all in universe
We're not trying to like at least i'm not trying to go into the whole like, you know
like what the
The meta context of whether or not they're a protagonist or not. I thought
But sometimes you might have to because if choices are made purely by the decision of the writer like
Bullets don't happen to hit the main character when they hit other people
That's a choice of the writer
You can justify it more adequately in the story with realism like if they're behind cover or other things like that
But it's always a choice
Right
But the whole idea of like engaging in a story and being immersed in it is that i'm never thinking the writer made such and such
Choice the writer chose to do this because it would do this the whole idea is that i'm meant to be treating it
Like it's actually happening
Like that that's the objective
Not necessarily the objective. No, not necessarily at all
I I mean, I would say it definitely is the objective. No, no, like for instance
With my story. I had an end goal that I knew exactly where I was heading to so I needed to manipulate and craft everything
Yes, but the person who's reading it should be thinking about that though is
Exactly
And so i'm literally forcing everything around everything to get the characters to that end point, right?
And so every single thing that caused them to get to that point is an artificial thing i'm purposely injecting. Yes
That it feels like it was a natural progression that they if everything played out the way they would
In universe, that's the ultimate goal. There was no way that they could not have reached that like
The point that i'm trying to make is that you don't want anybody to think that it was something that you chose to do
Not to mention artificial from our POV is different than artificial in that universe
Yeah, yeah because in the universe nothing is artificial it's meant to be things that are happening
Exactly i'm saying that's obviously saying that the whole time you want it to feel like that but ultimately in the story
Everything is artificial not in that universe
In the universe what i'm talking about just the story as it exists everything is artificial it's fiction. Yes, but not in that universe
In the universe it's meant to be like it's in our world where that is a story it is in that universe it is not
It's not
Because if it's if it's not being treated like it's a non-fiction, you know reality in the world
Either of our points are not contradicting one another. So i'm failing on what is being established by a state
um, the the problem is that it's um, it's like
It's like it's being approached from um from like the opposite direction
You know, it's especially when it's the case is being made for, you know expediency
Like it would be harder to to figure out, you know to to really like fix the root problem
and so it's okay because we recognize that it's a story and that the protagonist is special because
The writer picked them for a reason and the writer created them to have specific attributes
Like these are not the things that we want to be thinking about
No, but that is but but that is very much the case that can happen
That the writer did pick them and gave them attributes because they're the protagonists
The whole goal is to make it not feel like that but that is the reality in many cases with the rewriting process
We're not talking about the writing process though here
We're talking about like what actually works or doesn't work in the story as opposed to you know
The process that was happening for when they came up with it
At least that's what i'm trying to focus in on
Like yeah, I recognize that, you know when when someone's writing a story then
Like yeah, it's they've made all of this
Comes down to we don't normally discount contrivances by appealing to the audience's understanding that this is being written that it's just yeah
Yeah, neither am I like?
Yeah, you guys have been understanding the point that I know i've been just saying my points have been
Sometimes you can justify certain elements of plot armor
Okay, even if it might be a little less unrealistic, but some if you need to characterize because again
Again we you know like
You know, what is plot armor then because is a stray bullet not hitting the character plot armor
Is according to the definition
Yeah, that kind of is according to the definition plot armor that I I see here because it's only not hitting the character
Because the writer is deciding it not to hit the main character. What is your definition plot armor though?
No, the german decided to shoot that other guy
Like what would be your personal definition for what you consider to be plot armor?
It just might help because I don't know like the way that i'm kind of feeling it at the moment
And this could be an official one
But the way that i'm working like in describing
My argument around is anything that is protecting any character whether the main character or not by virtual decision of the writer it is
almost
Almost by definition a protection given to that character in the plot as chosen by the author hence
It must be plot armor, but what if everything is everything that ever happens where the character doesn't die as plot armor
But then it's a useless time
Then i'll go further that there's bad plot armor an appropriate plot armor if i'm working within this definition and bad plot armor is
Effectively in the narrative issue is that you've extended it to things that are impossible like a guy not getting his arms ripped off
when he latches onto a
Like the only reason his arms didn't get ripped off is because he is the protagonist
As opposed to his arm brings appealing because brings appealing to us at our pov now instead
So back when i'd said why would bill burgo after mandalorian?
You can say like well bill bur's character. He seems to be a bit reckless
He thinks that or you could have said well the writer wrote him that way
Yeah
The difference is you're arguing from our pov as consumers versus in universe
Yeah, what if another character in universe saw that and they were to describe what happened to try to explain it
Sorry repeat that last part if if someone else in the story was to witness that
What would they think?
I don't know. Like how would they explain that? There are there are many different reactions you could describe to a character
I mean, but but if they're looking at you have a question
Because this part will be down to a subjective kind of interpretation. Do you feel his arm being ripped off?
Is that as flawed?
uh
and you know
Disbelief like uh an sorry. Is that as
unrealistic as the dagger disappearing
Um
So if we lead it to his logical conclusion, let's say it broke his arm
He then loses grip on the wire, I guess or he could still theoretically maybe get to the ship with the jetpack
It doesn't necessarily need that arm to be functioning. You might be able to grab a bomb and place it on then drop off
So maybe there's a chance that everything could still run the way it was with the knife. There isn't she'd be dead
Yeah, so my point is that there's a spectrum and I guess I just have this is still pretty bad
Yeah, well, this is the thing I guess my tolerance or
Suspension of disbelief in this realm of things about the protagonist doing more physically incredible things
I have a higher tolerance for that. Yeah, but it just seems to be
And so i'm it much it's much easier for me to just go, okay
I guess it's just because it all seems to be rooted in there the protagonist
I don't know like it's because that's what because plot armor is so wait
What happened like what about if this was cara that this happened to? Yeah, would it be okay for an unbroken?
Cara dune well, she's an absolute tank and beast and so I actually feel like she'd be able to survive it easier
Nobody nobody's doing this no human being all right. We'll just keep moving. What about car weathers?
Carol hang on. No, I I wouldn't think how
Why not?
Well, there's no idea is older for one is not
Yeah, but he's he's a secondary character
How come you say that how come you said that is the reason and not because he isn't the protagonist?
Yeah
Well, what do you mean? Are you saying that the protagonist is strongly?
It doesn't it doesn't hurt mando because he's the protagonist but it does hit car weathers because he's old
Yeah, I see what you're saying
And I don't think it discounts my point that
Because when I say he's the protagonist that was just brought here for me saying he has
Generally better special abilities and physically stronger than other characters car weathers is a good example
And so that's what I meant when I was saying he's the protagonist
All right, that's an argument we can respond to if you said mando is strong enough to survive that I would argue he's not
He's a human
His arm would be broken and someone else has argued in chat that his armor would have done it
The arm is the wrist the wrist is a gauntlet you pull on that with the kind of force that arm is coming with it
At the beginning of the second episode on the non-armored part that part is not armored
It's not even about that though. The wrist isn't there isn't connected to the suit. It's on its own
It would make a lot more sense if his armor functioned as some type of exoskeleton that could support, you know
additional forces in packs and weights and
And things and other things like that
But there's no indication that it does work like that. It could answer it if they you know, put it in
but like I was saying before I have um
I have more tolerance to accept this kind of thing with characters that obviously physically stronger and heroic in the context of the story
You get how that's not the same argument
That's not the same no, no because I was saying I was saying that's what I meant. I was saying is the protagonist
That's not like you're appealing to protagonists rather than appealing to training history
And if you say that's the same thing I would argue it's very much not well
I I fully admit that I picked poor wording when I was saying that but that is what I meant. I hope you can understand that
All right then
so
We're actually close to the end of this though the next one i've got is there's a there's a declarative statement from kara saying
Blasters are useless and then kara and mando both start shooting again
So that's interesting you got him I guess and um, there's uh, i'm trying to show it but it keeps glitching up
I'm gonna put the cover on a second, but you guys can pull this up yourself. You have a copy on
3843 there's a little uh little cheat he arrives onto the ship
And uh, he's clearly both his his gun is holstered
And then uh, they just changed the camera shot and he suddenly has a gun in his hand
He doesn't have one they've done that before and then he has one
Yeah, like that's cheating
Because it's uh, it's gonna be tough to grab it. I'm gonna let it go. I'm just saying
Uh, this isn't as bad as kylo and truss but surviving the crash it's like all right, you let them off gideon's
Okay, he made it
Yeah
I'll assume that they just they built to be able to crash
Yeah, they just thought ahead. Tie fighters
Nearly all ships in star wars must have some type of inertial dampening
Otherwise people would be pancakes inside with the rate, you know, you know
G-forces are imparting on self-returning and stuff and that would help people survive a bit
Depending if they're you know inertial dampeners are still functioning when the ship is during a crash from damage or something
and then
um, because gee like I have I have trouble believing that um
Rise of skywalker crashed with kylo that any inertial dampeners were still working after that thing was a ball enrolled a couple
they chose to
Animate slash cgi that explosion on top of him or even if it were real they chose that that is uh
That's that's baffling, isn't it?
um
So yeah again, this is obviously the scenario where they would have possibly all been dead
If not for the smith had to give the uh the jetpack. So that's that's good that that happened. Um
And uh at the end of the episode that he's he's he's told he's welcome to rejoin the guild
Despite everything that's happened kind of blows my mind. Yeah, that's insane
Sorry, you should be able to get a job in this business again
He's welcome to rejoin the guild after everything that's happened according to carl. Oh, yeah, that one is uh, it's hilarious. Uh
The they just have queels grave at the end and he's just like, all right
It just bothers me that there wasn't more done for that character and more recognition of why and how he's died and what it means
It's just like yeah, whatever. It's fine. This is great
I got one. Um car says looks like we cleaned up the town and i'm like, how the fuck have you established that?
This is no more troopers. So the troopers outside the river hatch they were the last ones
They're all the other ones were dead
You got them all there's none left. All right. Sure
Okay, leave that I guess
um
Yeah, they didn't check if moff gideon had died even though as far as they're aware he's the whole reason any of this is happening
Oh, it's kind of weird that they just don't check
It seems like it seems like I really hope season two's drama isn't based on the fact that they didn't check if he's died
dead
Well, it will be he's clearly going to be the well, let's hope let let's he has a he has a darksaver
That's good. Let's hope he has a boss. All right. Let's hope he has a boss. That's making him do all this. Okay
I doubt it, but I like how he gets out and he just turns on the sword
It's so cool. Isn't it so cool?
Do you guys think it's cool? I think it's cool. I'm not hearing anyone say it's cool. What the fuck
You know, I'm gonna play it for the stream look how fucking cool this is it's got a darksaver
Fucking cool look at that guys
Guys, how fucking cool is
I can't wait for moff gideon to battle mando on like oh
Fuck it when it's raining at the top of a hill with his darksaber
I wonder what mando's melee weapon's gonna be. I hope it's a darksaber an axe
A mandalorian helmet made of lightsabers or you'll just get a normal lightsaber, baby
So cool
Have to have a lightsaber fight. I like her chat like it's a vibro blade. It's like yes. We were very serious just now
All of that was uh very
serious, so anyway, uh
We got a grand total of like
I want to just say on average something like 20 times that mando would have died if not for his um
His armor throughout the whole show which just you know makes you wonder what he was doing before he got that armor. I don't know
Um, he was just taking hits man
The entire point of the season plot is ruined the second the foe empire expose themselves in the hopes of capturing baby yoda on navarro
They'll hire and pay countless bounty hunters to go and find this creature
While having its location on hand only for them to assault the person with baby yoda themselves even to the point of killing their own
Men that just destroys the whole season the fobs in general damage
Essentially everything we understand about how bounty hunting works as a professional in relation to people hunting people is all very confusing
Mando and a lot of the other characters make extremely stupid decisions regularly
It's really difficult to take him seriously as a competent veteran bounty hunter
The season was really small despite the fact that they had a lot of filler
It's surprising and what i'm referring to is just episodes that don't push along. What is the urgent plot in the show?
Mando has to forget how fobs work in order for them to have filler as well, which is baffling
There's like literally four episodes and even them are drawn out then
There's like all of the fights and the action when you pause and slow down
There's loads of contrivances and and just silly choices made by friendlies and enemies at all times
Obviously mando's armor just that that issue in general that his position on droids is confusing
Inconsistently the least and uh his attitude about baby yoda throughout which these to me are all extremely fundamental
And then if you strip all of this down what you're left with
as far as i'm concerned is a broken season of television and uh
It's extremely rushed as well and they have so much to work with and
This this these two streams have been to explain why?
I don't think it's very good
Um, there's an interesting comment
I'd like it verified if anyone can saying using the final velocity of 117 miles a second
That gives us an average acceleration of 76.0 miles second squared or 7.8 g's
That's big, but it's survivable, especially for someone like the mandalorian
See it's not it's not just the 7.8
It's not just the g's that happening all at once. Yeah, it's the sudden force on his forearm yank
Well, no, yeah, you would need to find out if the socket can survive that level of
The thing is is like it's an instantaneous
I'm gonna go ahead and bet no basically. Yeah, probably not
Uh, let's see how how much how much what are we looking for? How uh, how much force can pull an arm off?
So it looks like when undergoing an accelerate and this is only acceleration
This is a very specific question to ask but when you get to 9 g's your body feels nine times heavier
Blood rushes to the feet heart can't pump enough to bring this heavier blood to the brain
Uh, your vision narrows to a tunnel it goes black if acceleration doesn't decrease you pass out and die
Yeah, i'd say seven times the weight of something pulling on your socket should be enough to rip it off. Yeah, especially if it's all of a sudden
Yeah
Oh
Yeah, um
Do you want to get the final final tisms done?
So like just conclusions about the show either the three of you can go first pop off after uh, yeah after that
Um, oh maybe shab. Do you want to go first or
Sorry, what was the last part?
So I I gave a sort of blip for what I think of this show as a whole I guess either of you three can go next
Oh, yeah, uh, lots of problems. I found it enjoyable overall still for you know, arbitrary reasons happy to admit that
And I you know won't try and say that
All I won't say it's good
Uh, but if you can find enjoyment and similar things that I did you could enjoy it
That's kind of my view on mandalorian at the moment
I I want to push you out of not liking it if you did like it because I could definitely see like, uh, I definitely
Was keen to like this one. I like space bounty hunters. I feel like there's not
a lot of space bounty hunter stories, but
Yeah
I
So I don't think it's good. Um
Maybe it's uh in perspective like from again more has been shown me bumpy and went up to the really good stuff now
um
And it's really good
And then when I sort of come back to watching mando yesterday, it was just frustrating
I think that's a big problem with this show is that it just frustrates me because
I feel like it has a lot of potential. I feel like it could have been good if what happened in this season
Was stretched out for a longer period of time. It could have been more potent. It could have really been punchy
It's a great universe. It's like a great eye. It's a great idea
but uh
Yeah, i'm yeah
Not a fan
Not a fan of this one
next up
That'll be you rags no, it's either of them either of them could go fast
I i'm pretty much in the same boat as youtube for the most part. Um
I
I originally
Really liked the first episode and thought it was yeah
Um, I remember we watched it together the three of us we watched it together, uh, and we were all we were on board
We were ready for more
Uh, then it just got worse and worse and worse and then at the end
I hated it and then we rewatched all of the episodes again
And we were going to take notes and stuff and then it was just like a catastrophe
Um, I think there are some good elements of it, but for the most part they're
Like a lot of the effects are really good. Some of the designs are nifty music's awesome
Music's good, but these aren't things that are really story related
I think that they really botched what could have been a fantastic idea and all of us as we were watching the show
Just crash and burn we were thinking of better things on the fly as to what they could have done
Um, I don't have a lot of confidence in the show to be better with episode or with uh season two, but
Hopefully, but i'm not gonna I'm sorry. Samuel Guzman said one through four a good
Four is four is not good
Four is the worst one. Yeah, like none of yeah, the first one is the best
Yes, four is two is all right twos. Okay three is
Four is god. It just it just news dives
As far as i'm concerned four five six seven eight. It's like oh god, what happened?
Yeah, i'm even saying like two and three are good. Oh, he said he said my bad he meant one three three. Oh, yeah
That's okay
That's yeah, that's better. I still don't think two and three are good
Well, yeah, I was gonna say so that's that's the four of our conclusions
Uh shad, do you want to give a number out of 10? We did this at the beginning of discussing any of it
Let's just see. What did I give it at the beginning? Well, wait, no, no, no, you gotta we'll all say our numbers first
And then we can compare back. Yeah
Yeah, honestly, like it would have to depend on the standard i'm rating it by
And so if i was to rate the writing and consistency it would get like a three. Um, oh shit
Or yeah two or three somewhere around there
No continue i'll put an asterisk next to it saying on writing
Yeah, um
And uh
I don't know like I i've been enjoying things too disproportionately in it that I get too subjective
So probably i'll just leave it there because I don't think other people get like because for instance
I loved the production values. I just enjoyed looking at um, the star wars world
Realized in a very consistent and true way
Maybe so maybe just give a number for what your enjoyment value is like an enjoyment
Value was probably five or six out of ten. Honestly how much I enjoyed it. Okay
And so yeah with the six out of ten that I say yeah, I I did enjoy it I found it enjoyable, um, yeah
Free what what number? I I'm pretty sure I started with a three and i'm pretty sure that i'm still on a three
Yeah, all right. I'm gonna go with three rags. What are you going with?
I was kind of thinking something around there. Um, if we talk objectively
Yeah, oh, it's the only one that matters for me right now
Uh, I yeah, i'm gonna go with a three. All right
So the original scores were shad gave it a seven. I gave it a three fringy gave it a four and rags gave it a three
Oh, okay. So I
tumbled I tumbled a little bit
Um, but yeah, uh, obviously that's it now, uh for bad delay
Like we we were the controversial tisms for a while. Hopefully people who were interested to find out that's that's why we don't like this show
Uh, yeah, it was very we did that a very short amount of time. It only took a few seconds to get through all
It really tumbles towards the end. I would say even though four was really bad
You could still look at what came before and think that's not too bad
But I think seven and eight deal a lot of damage to uh, the characters
yeah, and uh, I am i'm
I'm not I don't even know if i'm excited for season two to like i'll watch it
I'll watch it. Yeah, i'm I i'm way more excited for batwoman
That one's just a dumpster fire with basically no redeeming qual- no redeeming qualities
That's how we're bringing that's not two out of ten, right batwoman's two out of ten and then infiniti-tisms
Yeah, I think uh, I think the standard would be like yeah one is infinite tisms two is batwoman
Three is mandalorian four would probably be like so let me ask you
Can you have a zero?
Well, we talked about this. I was saying would zero be non-functional
Yeah, that's what i'm thinking
When I think of a video game, for example zero means I can't play it. Yeah, it's not playable
It doesn't work and it's base level. Is there a tv show out there that people can't watch?
Is that broken? Yeah, I I guess one would be the lowest you could go
Yeah, but again, this is working on a 10 scale system. Yes, you could make something worse than
A crisis on infinite earths. You could always add more things that are shit, but i'm still saying it's a one
Yeah, it's um, yeah, it's an interesting way of trying to set a standard. I mean, I don't really prefer numbers anyway
I just like uh, this is just a super simple
Yeah, um, but yeah, obviously i've actually got a lot of questions
Saved and there's possibly more to collect and we should probably get on with super chats
But I was just gonna say whatever you guys want to do now. Uh, this is the uh,
I i'm gonna call it here because i've been in this call for like eight hours. So yes, man
God has been too, but I kind of like I am not I don't know about you shad. You might be a morning person. I am not
I think I might need to catch some z's but uh, it was a great conversation as always
So thank you very much for coming on you're gonna you're gonna promote that gay little channel of yours, sir
Uh
Oh, yeah, just my channel. Yeah
Maybe maybe there'll be some quarantine videos. Who knows probably not i'm not gonna i'm not gonna give you any promises
But yeah, I like how you can I can't even find my stream like this stream
There's only yeah this stream then the watch numbers have been really low for it
It's not going out to people. The only way to find it is through discord
Twitter or people telling other people it's here
Yeah, we only have 760 watching and it aren't our highest weren't even
That high. Well, I was gonna say I don't even think we went that low with our first few episodes. So something's weird is going on
Something's wrong. Yeah
I think some people in chat were saying that they could only find it through like a link from somewhere or that it wasn't popping
But uh, you know, it'll go on to moolah. No one's gonna miss out. It'll be fine. Mm-hmm
Um, but yeah, all right. Uh, thanks guys. Let's talk to you later and see you later. Everybody. Goodbye, sir
Catch ya, mate
And uh, yeah link to his channel is in the
channel in the description
Uh, but yeah, i've been hearing from other people that this is apparently a problem for everyone's streams. We it's weird stuff's going on
youtube's uh
Doing some stuff. Uh, yeah, shad. Do you want to do you want to stay or do you want to?
I could stick around for a bit longer. I might go to the toilet
But i'd like to try and catch some of the super chats
I'm not sure how much longer i'll stay on but i'll certainly stick around for a bit more
Yeah for as long as you can my good friends is good stuff. Like very much for as long as your video so far. It's good. Uh
So yeah, i'll just go to the toilet and i'll be back. Mm-hmm. All right rags you ready
I'm ready. Let's do it. Um
You do know. Oh wait, i'll read this one. I can't remember if we did it or not. Uh
You thought you read the last super chat but insert weaboo meme here
I don't know if we read that from the last stream, but I have now so it was me dio
You do know the hulk dab is not a dab and even an attempt at a dab watch hilary clinton dab to learn what dab is
Or read wiki how
That's hilary clinton done a dab
Just a thing
That sounds has oh god, yeah, she has oh that's great. All right. Did you look up hilary clinton?
Dad, yeah, let me just i'll just take a look i'll just glory glorify your screen with that
Oh my god, she's up there with ellen in some
cuck
Oh, no. Oh, no
hilary
Dab well on the generous show. Yeah, that's that. Oh, wow. Hey somebody. I don't know if you've seen this this is slight. Um
Uh
Detour for just a moment, but oh right. Yeah, so if anyone didn't know
um
the the thing we were talking about last defap with idubbbz he's getting called a simp for it, right and uh
Pewdiepie is kind of
You know pretty pretty liked on the internet. So
Someone compared them to this image of like I don't even know
like
attractive couple versus
sad couple sort of thing and then quinton reviews quote tweeted that
And said so this is literally just blonde hair blue eyes is good, right?
And it's like what why did you make why did you make it about race?
That's the lens of these people view everything through it's like jeez. All right
Quinton's such an interesting character to say the least
He uh people would say like we need to cover his video on sargon
It's it's at april fools. It's not on sargon. It's not a real thing
He did it on the I think it would be interesting to
I don't know well
Talking about the whole idubbbz thing. I haven't delved too far into it. I'm wondering if there is
All right. Is it the way like for instance?
Mahler if you had a girlfriend and you were serious about you know your relationship and everything
And she made like an ole fans account and was taking pictures of her
With them flams nakedness part for fans or for like patrons and stuff. Wow. What would you do? Um
So this is this is she hasn't she I didn't meet her and she was doing it. This is something she started after we've met
Yes, i'd probably be like
Uh curious as to her options for jobs and find out exactly why this is the one that she really wants to pursue
Um, I guess it could be depend on a lot of factors, but I wouldn't I wouldn't I wouldn't prefer it. Uh, not at all
Um, let me ask you this
Is it possible to be okay with her doing that in a non-symph way?
Uh, I guess i'm gonna have to clarify what simp means, isn't it when you like yeah
Isn't simp when you're like doing everything for a girl but not getting any results and that that's got definitions
Kind of like it like when you're when you're really
defending um when when a man puts himself in a
Subservient position under women in hopes of winning them over or when you put too much value on a female for no reason
Um, that sort of thing. I mean well because in that scenario, they would be my girlfriend, right?
So technically I wouldn't would it would that qualify?
I don't know. That's the thing
Isn't that close? Uh, yeah, isn't that closer to being a cuck than a simp if um, no
It's only it's only you're only a cuck if you get enjoyment or gratification out of it. Oh, okay
All about definitions like that's why that's why cucking is and cheating are not the same thing
It's really important that we get this right. Yes, it's very important distinction
Because I always think like what if like let's say what if everyone's like, um
That what if you like during her streams where she's showing her tits and her
Vag and everything you just show up you just start fucking her and look to the camera and you said yeah, that's right
I'm the only guy who gets to have this you can look and you can throw money at her
But i'm the one that let me look at me. I'm just i'm fucking her right here
You're watching me. So if you you're saying that that would that couldn't be considered a simp or cuck attitude, right?
Yeah, would that be considered simping?
Like I have to assume not I have to assume not
because like can you be so
Like confident and in your position with her
That it isn't simping because I haven't given this much thought and i'm just kind of curious
Hmm
I know that this it's crazy how much of a sort of war there has been over this I looked into it a little bit after
The street where j-log voted. I was just like, oh shit like people are getting really pissed
And uh to to make sure i've grasped it properly in case someone feels we haven't
People seem to be pissed at the girl as a person rather than this the only thing. Yeah. Yeah, that's the thing. Yeah
Yeah, there's lots of lots of claims about things that she's done and said and I haven't verified them
But yeah, if if true they would frustrate for sure
Um when more
When more has more videos in 2020 than rag is it's true. I have three you have zero. Yeah. I'm yeah, I know. Uh,
Embarrassing bear with me
I got some things I'm working on. I just bear with me things are
Going on
So at the risk of opening another can of worms just on the back of that debate we had before right?
um
When the thing that I was saying about it, like sometimes
um
You can choose to exchange elements of realism for coolness and other things if you can achieve it as fair exchange
Is not magic systems exactly that?
Like magic system is a wholly internally consistent. It wouldn't be internally consistent for mandalorian to have super strength randomly
But I wonder like say you have a
Mandalorian I could probably go with you there but like say you have a
Story where it's basically a fiction but based on earth and the main character is insanely tough
Probably stronger than what you could logically justify a regular human being but only a little bit
Um, and he and he manages to survive things that reality
No one really should survive but it's right on the verge
And the fact that is able to do it because he is just so tough and so good
Like wouldn't that be subtle enough that you could still suspend your disbelief and enjoy the story?
Um, so like the way this I got a good example of this actually so I brought up with jay
uh reservoir dogs versus
1917 and that it kind of took me out of 1917 that a certain character bleeds out very quickly
And uh jay was like why?
And I was like I watched that movie by the way
Yeah
And jay was like why and I was like well because as far as I know it takes a long time to bleed out from something
Like that and he was like based on what and in my head
I was like i'm literally drawing from nothing but reservoir dogs and I was like i've not actually checked
And then I was my mum's a nurse and I was just like how quick what's the quickest way you could die from a stab
To the belly and then she was like where were you stabbed and it's not even a question. I thought of I was like
All right. There are things in in your belly
There's lots of things it depends on you. You know, you look it up if you're stabbed in the um,
The the the big artery that's next to your spine
You can die really quick
And I was just like oh
And so theoretically as a writer you have the freedom to stab somebody in the chest and as long as you obscure it enough
That we can't definitively tell where that knife went. You can choose exactly how long you want that person to live
Because none of us can call that out to be impossible. Yeah, and in the same vein
Uh someone gets punched in the head and i'm like oof and then they get punched again
I'm like, okay, wait and then they get punched again
I wonder how many punches it would take for me to say nah, it's impossible that he's conscious and then I check online
It's like there was several people across earth's history. There was this guy in a circus. He was punched
50 times in the head by passerby's he was like the circus freak guy and he he didn't get concussed from any of it
because he had like a
That's just something that happened. I'd be like
All right, not impossible. It's just stretching my ability to believe that's where i'll concede that but impossibilities is where I don't even talk about
Believability anymore. I'm just like no, it's just impossible
Okay, good. Well good tonight. Just kind of double checking. Mm-hmm
And yeah, this is this is why we get with batwoman even we're often checking, uh law
Like police rule standards
What what how when at what point do you die from freezing?
Uh can like what damage you can get from being given a defibrillator as like a normal person?
Yeah, all these things come up because batwoman does them so casually that we're like, whoa
I'm pretty sure that's not how that works. Then we check and we're like, yeah, that's definitely not how that works
Yeah, it's not often the character gets decapitated and we're like, oh, but how long will they live?
Yeah
It seems like that we agree that we're okay with certain elements of unrealistic things if it's internally consistent
Like magic and other things or if it can be just well, we we've always been about internal consistency of the universe
Not really. Yeah, I agree. I agree there as well
And uh, I you know, so the question would be is that mandalorian arm jerk thing?
Is there anything that could justify it it's harder to argue
Yeah, the the jetpack being active the whole time the armor being connected
Like iron man getting pulled along by the arm
You could argue the armor could all take the force of it. I suppose to some degree
But that doesn't apply to him and then uh mandalorian being a creature like, you know, a gathunton and you're like, what's that?
And it's like isn't it humanoid but really strong?
So i'm wondering like is it come out of the realms of possibility completely?
That someone might be able to survive that without from what I can tell no that amount of force that quickly that arm's coming off
Yeah, I mean it would be I mean because people can do remarkable things
is like that yeah, but if we're into the realm of a miracle occurs then
Yeah, like I I can i'm fine with it for the most part but when it comes to like originally we talked about how he falls
um
Back first flat after that huge fall he takes off the sand crawler like no, there's no way he's just fine
Well, see that's another example again that I didn't have as much of an issue with that for the exact same reasons
And I think that got us on a similar debate back then. Yeah, as opposed to now
Yeah, at least i'm consistent with what I uh, you know
willing to accept and not
Morla, did you ever check out the tfa art book?
They had planned more of their dumb ideas years before tros without uh with the reasoning that it making no sense being a good idea
ps hyrax
Hello it making no sense being a good idea
What?
That's your like premise like hey man, if it doesn't make sense, but no, I haven't seen that I imagine it would be full of funny
um
They fly now spelled backwards. So one year yet
one year yet
Rex i'm a console pleb who wants to get into pc gaming particularly for strategy gaming also interested in star citizen
What kind of setup would you recommend and what do I need to keep in mind?
Um, if you play star citizen's tough tour, I haven't played it. I just have watched people play it and I know some things about it
Apparently it's rather tough to run
um
Uh, so you might need something beefy for that most strategy games though. They're not really reliant on high fps
though more fps is always going to give you a more satisfying experience and it will apply equally to well not equally but it will
Give you more enjoyment for everything that you play. You're never going to say man. This is better that it runs at lower fps
Um, but what you can do luckily with pc gaming is you can build yourself a pc and add parts to it later
as you feel
um
so if uh
If that that is probably uh, that is definitely uh a strategy that I recommend my old pc that I had for like
Five years or so
It was all working off the same shell pretty much the same motherboard and case and everything
I just changed out the graphics card and it would run better and better and better until I just kind of decided I want to make a
Uh a leap on some of the core parts
But you got a lot of a a lot of options
But strategy games can be cpu intensive as well because there's a lot of stuff going on at one time
so I would um look up benchmarks for things for like some games you might want to play right so
When it comes to google there's tons of people in forums that you can ask about it
So just say I want to play uh command and conquer this or total war that or don of war this and you know
What should I have for it or look at the recommended specs for it? Um, there's a lot of options. There's a lot of correct options
But it's very modular as well. You can customize a pc. So just uh
kind of see what you want to play and
Maybe aim for that but you could always add to it later
You can always add to it later for the most part many parts for the most part
It ends with resist nurgle and high rags
Hello
Your gedel video gave me good vibes in these dark times. Thanks and hopefully y'all washing your hands and as always
Send my love to wags
Oh, thank you. And yeah, I'm washing my hands. I got my uh,
Apparently everyone's going out and buying all the hand sanitizer, but luckily I already have some I guess
Sometimes i'll use a little dawn
um
like when I wash the don
Deal with you know grease on my hands or oil
From washing plates and stuff. You can use dawn
Uh soap and water works excellently
Uh, and if you don't have any of those things then I just
You got you got a you got a choice to make rags you ready for this?
This is oh i'm fucking ready. This is on the roof. All right, here we go
So hi rags
Hello
If diabeto swapped your mum and girlfriend's minds
Which one of them would you have sex with or as a third option diabeto?
Which would you sex?
um
So this will have to be a hypothetical girlfriend not really I don't really yeah
So the girlfriend's mind in the mum's body the mum's mind in the girlfriend's body or diabeto
Um, I would have my I would not want to have sex with my mom's mind
Yeah, I actually think that we'd deal in this is
Yeah, that would be um
Because in in this scenario where you can swap minds with bodies
The mind is who the person really is and the body's just the shell in that in that sense. Mm-hmm
Um, so I I would not want to have sex with my real mom if that makes any sense and diabeto's
with her body then diabeto's body
I don't even know what diabeto's mind is like. So
Especially if he had his small meal for um
Uh
There's no good answer out of these three guys. There is no good answer. Um, yeah, uh
Yeah, I I think that's what I would do
Um
Just finished buffy season four. What are your thoughts on restless also thoughts on buffy's will building?
I think it's the weakest part of the show will buildings pretty bad like an overall three out of ten sort of situation. Uh
they regularly bend their rules and uh
Joss Whedon's been on record to say that he doesn't care about will building that much
He just wants to get the basics so he can get all of his uh
His stories going which is a shame because I think if the will building and buffy was fixed up
It would be a hell of a lot better
And as for the restless I love that episode a lot and once if you finish the show return to it
It's got loads of foreshadowing in it and um, check out
Analysis videos of that episode and you'll find a hell of a lot of uh, allegorian subtext that you would have missed
That'll be like, oh my god
That means that and that means that
um
Mola, have you seen any trailers of or played the demo for final fantasy seven remake? If so, what do you think?
I have not i'm afraid
And I doubt my two
co-host arenas here have have either
Final fantasy which one seven
Remake no
Why the orcs joins the super chat irags
Hello
Mola stop seeing such I don't know. It just says it just says all
I can't believe they didn't specify mola. Stop being such a bullqueer. You're scaring shad. No, i'm not
How dare you shout out a bunch of swords. Why would you find me scary?
Uh arch wall hammer mashup again when I mean i'm i'm on board to have him back but
We'll be trying to find a video for yeah, like it's always good to find a video that they'll actually care about as a guest
You know, we don't want to just yeah, like the last video we did was great. That worked out really well
Yeah, I mean i've got it on my list to check out their clone trooper one the same people to see if it's like
Uh good content to respond to or not
Um
Shat have you seen the 2d clone wars micro series?
They're talking about the 2d animated one. Yeah, it was released on carton network a couple years ago
I saw i've seen a couple of episodes. I don't think i've seen the whole thing
But it was actually pretty cool. Like it wasn't heavy on story
It was a lot of just kind of like they were at least as more shorts weren't they from memory?
I I really can't remember. Um, it moves on to say if not watch the fight between general greeves and six jedi. It's fantastic
Okay
Normally I tell you dumbos to watch hardcore henry
But today I want an update on your progress toward getting wolf to watch the movie the hunt
I don't remember saying I was going to get him to watch it
But I do really like that movie not the new the hunt the old the hunt with um, mad michaelsen. Uh
but
Uh, yeah, no, no progress yet, but uh, potentially
When I brought up the hunt last year, you said you loved it so much that you wanted to keep the plot a surprise
Timestamp is on e5 20. Yeah, that would make sense. I wouldn't want say like I would recommend it fully to both of you guys
But I wouldn't want to tell you what happens in it. Um
Because it's uh, it's good. It's good stuff
Uh palpatine has npd
Npd personality disorder like oh
That's no wonder I empathize with him so much. Yeah
He's been going around shagging. So yeah, he's been creaming and achieving so who knows
Obviously, you don't need to watch the timestamp. No problem. Uh, can you fix the extra credits efap? Thanks
So it works, but apparently it doesn't work on mobiles
That's what i've heard
Because every time I try and access the efap extra credits episode it works and people keep telling me they can't access it and i'm
Like, uh, not only can I access it my own account my friends can and uh incognito can
so
I don't know what's going on. Um, but i've seen a lot of people say they're on mobile whenever it doesn't work
But like i'm I've got it up right now
Like I don't understand um by the way if someone said like of course you do because it's your channel
It's like no, this is on moolah versus maulah. So
I it's I don't know
Some people can't access it for some reason. Uh, i'm sorry about that, but it does seem to work on anything that I try
Even when i'm not signed in it's a weird one
Oh, greetings moopa. Hello rag is hello frogman. He's he's he's gone afraid and shadamus
Oh greetings
Most of twitter has npd
Yes
Oi maulie who keeps letting you out of your cage?
I was only put in a cage for one day this year while moopa ravaged my channel
Um shad who your favorite sanderson characters
So I really like um
the wax and wane from um, uh the miss born
sequel series
Calla, oh probably dalena. He is top top right up there old dalena from um stormlight archives
He might have to be my favorite. I think
No, there you go any any other like sort of close scoring ones?
Um vin is pretty awesome. I really liked her in original miss born. Um
Let me think any more more background obscure characters that are a lot of fun
um
I need to give it more thought really to try it because there's a lot of characters to go through
But I can share those ones off the top of my head
Yeah
This just says maticulations. Do you guys have any idea why that might be said?
That's some kind of body part i'm guessing. Yeah, like something on your teeth. Maybe you have to get filed off. I'm not sure
I think you're right sacred and powerful war cry
for the pure
Nothing like some minecraft and efap hi wags
Hello
I have autism. I just like when people treat autism like it's a bad thing and act like autistic people are dumb
It's one reason why I don't like sargon
All right
All right. I've always hang on. What there are three stages of autism and so
There's the first stage is actually aspergis and most you know, high functioning autistic people on the spectrum
Aspergis and and yeah, they function quite well, but if you're talking about like the stage three autism
That's very non-functioning
And I have a brother-in-law who's like stage two autistic
Um, and I have several cousins who are aspergis. So and a nephew as well. So yeah, there's a spectrum
Depends what type of autism you're referring to really
Well, I mean the people who are like he's mentally ill and then they were like pretty sure he's autistic
It's it's like I think if you were to challenge them about whether or not like are you saying autistic people are just stupid or something?
I'm sure they would be like no. No. No. No. I'm just saying it explains why mauler
Is so mean to people why mauler is so blah blah blah like they were just that's all they're looking to do
like I
You know, uh, it's I can't ascribe
Whether or not they're being malicious or not, but I can't help but feel like they're gunning to try and uh, you know list some kind of
Wikipedia article about whatever to try and be like see we've now proven it's not just that we don't like him
It's the truth. It's like, okay
You all I said was this star wars movie was bad. I didn't mean to
Ruined your life, but all right
Cover a video called tom holland embarrasses spider-man brand slash spider-man homecoming clip thoughts and rant by the amazing super mic
It's so homophobic
Um, all right, i'll pop that in as a big fan of homophobia myself
I'll uh, I guess we'll check that out the amazing
Spider mic. What was that? Yeah. Well, I can uh, let me see if I can
I'll copy it and uh
You can you can go sleuthing. You can go and discover the
the wondrousness of whatever this is
While I carry on sam is my favorite character from lord of the rings. Are you frightened is a close second?
Yeah, that's a fair choice
Speaking of which return of the king is gonna go back up probably wednesday. Um
It's so odd. It doesn't go down for like a month
It goes up live and then it goes down and then I re-upload a corrected vision goes down re-upload corrected vision goes down
Re-upload connected vision stays up
And it's just like what?
What do you want youtube and and like i'm gonna make it go live on wednesday and I have a feeling that it's gonna go
down again and so
We're in for another doom sort of scenario here guys. You're gonna have to wait until we finally get it out. But uh
Anyway
um
Average here in murica is borderline obese. Oh about the uh about the mcdonald's meal. Um
even still
even still
uh
Don't you can't classify that as a small portion for an average person. That's ridiculous
Uh, leave it to bob the nazi to talk about bigger density
That's the thing you never know what you're gonna get out of him
So
One day it's talking about how the coronavirus doesn't target the right people
And then the other day is the the density of mcdonald's foods. They're just not as high as you thought
What is that is it how long is that video about 27 minutes
Well, at least you found it we can check that out I guess see if it's uh
Something we can 27 minutes, but we could my I don't know sometime like i'm probably gonna take a nap after this
You want to check it out again? I'm curious. I'm very curious to see what this uh
Gentleman's beef is with something that tom holland apparently has done
Movie bob unloads himself off his dump truck to look at tweet about mcdonald's that's not takes heavy breath a lot of food
It's all relative you see the drinks would make it impossible for me. That was my biggest concern
I don't think I could down that much soda. Yeah, like it just fills it all up sugar and space
I mean the sheer volume
Um in defensive bob i'd eat all of that for free
Yeah, eating. It's one thing calling it a small portion. It's another thing
I don't know man. I feel like I look at a couple. It's like that's a small
I
Couldn't tell you the last time I went to mcdonald's
But i'm pretty sure that the last times I ever did was because
I just needed to eat and right now because I have things to do and places to go and I just want to
provide myself some level of
Quasi nourishment i was gonna say you're not gonna call it nourishment. You're gonna call it something else
Some kind of you know, I want to provide mass for myself
You want your stomach to have something to do?
Yeah, if it was like there was if there was a mcdonald's and right next to it there was a
Wendy's or anything as I ain't going to the mcdonald's
or a popeyes or a
Chick-fil-a or a canes
See my problem is is that my wife actually prefers hungry jack. Sorry prefers
Um at mcdonald's and I like
What is our equivalent of burger king? We call it hungry jacks over here for some weird thing
Way better
I know that's the same. That's exactly my voice
It's like like but like burger king is way better. Yeah, but my wife always likes mcdonald's and say it's like
Oh, well divorce
I was waiting. I was tempted to say that myself, but you and things just can't reconcile
I mean, you don't want your kids eating mcdonald's. You gotta do it for them
I love my wife I could
Uh, not only I mean if she became an axe murderer that might push me yeah fast food preferences, you know
brings me close
Not only is movie bob galaxy brain but he's also galaxy gut
Ah
Very good. I think we knew that
Cannon was never hated before disney got star wars
Well, yeah, it's funny all these like bizarre defenses. Like where were you guys ages ago?
It's like why is it star wars is the one that's made you say this like oh because it's mainstream. Oh because you like it
All right. Okay
We used to get along just fine talking about how things screwed over cannon. Nobody came to the defense of turbinate a genesis. Did they?
Um, I don't know maybe they i'm sure there was some sure there was
a future efap one day we cover a genesis take
nine out of ten grandmas hate tros
It's true. It's true
irag
Has shad seen blade and
Sorry, you said it retarted then
How could you
My brother is a second stage retard you can't say that
Has shad seen blade and sorcery if so, what does he think of it?
I have seen it. I haven't played it and it's on my list. I actually have a
vr headset and uh
I just haven't gotten around to setting it up
But that's on the list because someone's even like modeled
Um a mod for the sword of my book imperius and like you actually download this awesome high detailed
Imperius sword for sword and blade. Um, i'm tempted to use it
If I I hope i'm thinking the right game. This is the vr game. Yes
Okay, good
And uh froggled any plans to stream soon not that i've heard of but I will save that for um
If there's ever a possibility of getting him to answer that question be it another super uh efap
Captain fordo has vids on the damage clone wars did to cannon. It's more than episodes seven through nine
really
Clone wars apparently clone wars did more damage than episodes seven through nine. What I
That's a tough
Really? I feel like I feel like chat is gonna be very upset at that prospect. What's this video so I can link it captain fordo
Clone wars 2008 has done more damage to cannon than episodes seven eight and nine
Wait captain fordo is a character in the universe, right?
I'm guessing he's a youtuber as well. I don't know
Let me uh
Um
Captain fordo
Yeah, there's a
Why the clone wars doesn't fit in legends
If this person yeah, there's a captain fordo with
about 8 000 subs
Let's see, they don't have any videos I should be able to find it here
Mm
Just watch nostalgia critics top 11 stupid things in lord of the rings and it hurts my head
How much the list itself is dumb. I think it might be worth an efap on
uh, possibly
We've got another
Um lord of the rings efap we have to do at some point but that other video has been requested quite a bit
We shall get around to it. Why are we talking about the mandalorian? A starters part five is out
It was uh, yeah it is and it was fantastic
I
Don't know. Yeah, I don't know what video you're talking about from this guy. I think it's this one, but i'm not sure
Well, what about the one you read out where you said it doesn't fit into legends? That's probably something, right?
It might be that. Um
That's from
Yeah a while ago two years ago
Uh
Excellent gedel mauler. I feel huge more intellect util for having done a watch of it. Also. Hi rags
Hello also also shad your book was great
Oh, thank you, sir. I'm very pleased you enjoyed it. I'm glad you enjoyed gedel. That was a very nice super chat
It was just nice to everybody
uh
There've been a lot of arguments on efap, but I think the one we can all agree on is that rags is the handsomest doggo
Oh
Yeah
Thank you
No, no force heal can still work only op force users can use insta heal and everyone else uses healing trances or meditation
Gotta be careful
Thanks that clears up everything gotta be careful because of what's happened before gotta be real careful with that
What healing through meditation you're saying that's already been established that I guess maybe it was in legends
Or include more. I don't know
Matilda can beat ray in a fight and ray is still more of a mary sue change my mind also ola senior puppy rags
Matilda had to work really hard to develop her force abilities. Okay
She went through an arc of trial and error and then
No, when she first started it was low levels and it slowly grew in strength. It's a good example of progression of power
Also implying that we would even for a moment think that matilda's a mary sue for killing ray
We would just be clapping. We'd be like yay
Remember palpatine killed ray. He's not a mary sue, right?
I know it didn't take but still
I don't even know what to think anymore
The cannon can be broken on purpose and forgiven if it's good multiverse slash alternate timeline slash one shots
Just making up dumb shiz like oh, I don't know hyperspace kamikaze jacks up everything
Yes
Like one shots and stuff
Like though if you're purposely breaking canon like at what the example i'm thinking of the dragon ball z movies where they don't fit canonically into
The series and stuff. They're not technically canon in the series. Is that oh, well this person saying that those are okay, but
Oh, okay. Yeah making up stuff like the hyperspace kamikaze
But that's not essentially in canon though. This is kind of my point
Um, you could say it's in like the umbrella of the cannon, but it's not in the specific that timeline cannon or something like that, right?
perhaps
Oh, no, I almost missed my favorite intellicutals I didn't get a notification for this efab also high regs
Hello. Yeah, um, first mistake was assuming that we were
Intellicutals people in chat. How did you find out about this stream? Were you casually?
Looking on my channel. Was it discord or was it a notification because from what I can tell no notifications are going out
Which is lame, but whatever
Uh youtube has its has interested in doing its own things sometimes, you know
Um
This article sounds like I don't want to try and pay attention to canon
Let me make up whatever I want loosely in the universe because purity
I don't know because purdy
Pretty much the article is just trying to argue that it shouldn't have to do that
Stop criticizing my things. I like because it breaks canon
So I enjoy it. It was in recommended channel channel channel subscription lists live on the home page
People on reddit talking about it
Uh recommended casually browsing notification park have been recommended
So you were live notifications saw your channel sidebar
Yeah
Hmm
There's not most if not all of you guys are not getting the notification. It's just through a sub tab or recommended tab
interesting
I don't know what's going on
You might have to get everyone to subscribe to your twitter and get alerts and then tweet him out or something
I mean, it's not a huge deal. Like hopefully it if this keeps happening
We'll have to do something about it because it's like I know people like to catch it live
But um, i'm hoping it's just uh, you know a fluke or something
And uh, someone's just sending me a message in their regular chat rockwell porkins
Hey, it's only 5 30 in the afternoon over here. I'm in australia. Don't worry. I followed a profit
It's 1 30 a.m. Here. It's 7 30 a.m. Yeah
Yeah
It's like oh, it's like you waking up sued that i'm like
I appreciate you guys going all nighter for us australians. We appreciate it. I'm sure fringy does and
All right. Thank you. No problem
Uh, I want talking to rise from the grave and thrash this guy with his walking stick
If only oh my goodness
Um shad, were you going to get an analyzed mountain blade to banalords? Your input would be welcome. Also high regs
Yeah, man. I'm totally gonna be playing it
My problem is is that i've actually fallen back into the rabbit hole of my favorite game dragon's dogma
And I just have to I have to play through it
I just gotta get it out of my system going nuts with it because my kids are now on it
They've they're hooked on dragon's dogma. So i'm playing it with them
And uh and now I have to finish dragon's dogma now before I can
Dive into banalord because I when I do it, I need to be fully committed. I can't have distractions
Okay, banalord is a special thing for me now. Number two sport talking about so yeah, man
I'm diving into that but I I need to give it my full attention
Uh recently youtube started to hide streams after some time it starts
Uh, the only sign of it being live is the icon on the left panel near the channel name
Uh had some with previous efap and last two smud casts. Thanks youtube
Thanks youtube youtube doing great things helping our creators
You're on our side
Yeah
A character that always changes. This is the basic characteristic of olivia moor in eye zombie her personality reflects the brain. She's recently eaten
Yeah, that sounds like it could be cool
Has an idea. I don't know
Matt martin of the lucas film story group retweeted and said he would use this article anytime he's asked about star wars canon
Oh
Well that article's not going to help him yeah, in fact, it'll just make everyone confused
This would just hurt his you know work. Just devalue his effort. Yeah, that's a very dumb thing, right?
um
TV series
Sorry, yeah, someone asking chat. I'm not from new south. Wales from victoria. Yeah, please
TV series to watch not buffy this time mauler. All right, um
black adder
Um and faulty towers those are easy classic simpsons and futurama adventure time brick and morty
metal apocalypse
The office us I would actually recommend only recently finished all of that. Um
Go watch the vicarid dibley haunting of hill house
Uh stranger things season one and only season one one punch man
Uh fma brotherhood, I guess
Um
I tried rewatching black adder and faulty towers. I didn't find them that funny. I hate you
Sorry, sorry. I was watching it. Just thanks. Jay
I wonder. All right. Jay fine
All right. All right. Another hot take it is actually against the law to not enjoy faulty towers, by the way
Red dwarf is also not very funny in life. Oh jeez
Oh
Jay loves red dwarf. You've just you just got a jay take to jay's stuff
Nothing, but laugh track to try and get people to laugh along with jokes that aren't that funny
just
um
A daredevil to a degree chinoble that's uh, a definite go for that then there's the standard ones like
Breaking bad sopranos the wire madmen. These are all really strong first two seasons of lost. It's good shit. Uh, the it crowd
Um, i've heard mr. Robots very good. I've not seen it all myself. So maybe check that out
And then of course, I mean if it was if it was good enough for them to reference in batwoman
It must be oh really definitely
um
a game of throw
Uh, and then buffian angel i'm still putting them on that recommended list even though i'm not allowed to on they go right at the end
um
I'm drunk wasn't aware of this efap. Fuck you all except shad shad's cool
Oh gee, thanks. Um, oh by the way, allville is pretty enjoyable. I think that's one of the
TV series i've enjoyed most recently
I would highly highly recommend the first season of arrested development
Oh, yeah, arrested development was great and uh finnius and ferb, of course
Uh lie to me. I like that
Um, okay. I did enjoy the mentalist a lot. I have to admit
Uh, there was there was another I was thinking of um cab file. Maybe you can find it. It's very good
Um, oh star gate. Yes star gate sg1 is brilliant the whole series man
Get into that
Gonna so have you guys watched star gate? No, what do I do?
Oh god, I watched chad shows like mandalorian
Star gate sg1 is brilliant. So watch uh, the next generation
Look at you guys the renewed shows jeez
Um
Uh,
I think far escape's good. I can't remember a lot of it though babylon five
Everyone should see babylon five including shad. I heard the new battle star galactic is pretty good. I tried babylon five
It was one of those small moments that kicked me out of it
That never and I probably still could enjoy it if I just went back to it
But there's one moment that it was just like really
Threw me out as with space in the future and one of the security guy sits down to get his coffee
And he pulls out a newspaper and starts reading. I watch they're like no
Newspapers are already ancient in our current time, let alone the far future
Oh
I couldn't come back from that
I'm, sorry. You had to experience something so deal-breaking. That must have been
It was it was it was traumatic. I have to admit
Gonna sleep in here unlisted later. Have fun massive stop lol moolah god. Oh league of legends. I'm so sorry
I'm only signed into the client. It says i'm playing it right now. I'm not actually playing it
Uh, youtube don't want me writing fok ha take that damn got him
The combine versus the covenant who wins covenant the who the combine of the half-life two enemies
Uh
My theory is that biz lying about his military past and he knows nothing about guns hence his bad aim and him having holsters in awkward places
He has good aim sometimes
Yeah, he has good aim sometimes and it seems that other people can verify his and he was put in charge which is weird if he's not
Actually about if he was gonna lie about a distinguished past military history. What do you say stormtrooper?
He has good aim sometimes
Unlike stormtroopers more right even hit a can
More right guys
Seems like he's performing as well as expected
If he's ex soldier
Checked out a video called the biblical subtext in jurassic world fallen kingdom by clayton fioriti
I have been told about that one before we were planning on doing like a jurassic world stream
But it's always been on like the back burner if you will the burning of the back as they say
Uh, hey mube schley just so you know, not only did I not get a notification
This episode also did not appear on either of your channels. I had to go through the link in the discord left by glib
Anywho youtube
Yeah
I mean we we can tell this is almost becoming a private party at this point
like
You can't find this stream in many places and whoever's left is like huddling up around like a little campfire
Makes me wonder if this is a thing that's affecting all creators across the board
Sorry board because they've done some stupid thing with algorithm that alerts and other stuff or if they are targeting
You know, well more people are streaming now than ever
um, I figure I figure more people are streaming now than they're ever weird because of
Uh the lockdown and stuff. So maybe they're actually prioritizing streams and pushing other ones down
It was really weird like over the christmas break, right?
My view the views of my channel spiked massively
And this was during the time when I took a break and I wasn't uploading
I didn't upload for over two weeks and the the views were the best that have been on my channel for the whole year
And you and my experience every time before then is that unless I was uploading at least once or twice a week
My views were going to flatline and so I was like a beat keeping that heartbeat up to keep that maintain the views
And so it's just really it was really good. And then currently, you know, overall views are down
But the individual views of videos I upload are still all right
But overall and so it's just like I don't know what youtube is doing
Twist something and it's like oh, it's great. Then they do something and then things drop. It's like just can't predict it
It's friday, could you not i'm trying to do school work before it's due at 11 59
Oh
No, well, it's due already. So if you haven't finished it then it's true
Hey y'all I was curious if any of you have seen the estatus fan project the final part came out recently and I think it's pretty neat
I have it is very neato and dito
Haven't watched it yet. I want to I saw some of the earlier starter stuff and I was brilliant. So yeah, I do want to check that out
Hi shwags
Hello
Would wheatley from portal 2 be the definition of a useful idiot from the law?
I thought a useful idiot was someone who advocates for your position, but doesn't even know they don't even realize it's like against their uh interests
Isn't that what it is I could I let me check
Like you you get someone to
A useful idiot is a derogatory term for a person perceived as propagandizing
For a cause without fully comprehending the cause's goals
So would wheatley be considered that I mean
Isn't he just kind of an idiot in portal 2 not a useful idiot certainly not useful to a glad arse
Um, I don't know also what do you recommend
Do you recommend just rights hobbit video? Um, i've heard it's good
I haven't seen it myself. I imagine it's
not terrible
He's just um going through the problems of the films
Before he decided that he couldn't take joy out of the world
I
Want to debate mando sometime in the future mupa. I feel like i'm all out on that now
I feel like we're gonna have to wait until season two
Uh who wins year one batman or mando?
Year one bat win. I don't even need to bruce wayne without his suit would beat mando
Yeah, and as an idiot
Bruce wayne's a smartman. He'll be easy to trick him. He'd be like i'm sorry, sir
I didn't realize. Oh my god, please don't hurt me. I'm innocent
Amanda walks up to you and you grab one of his pistols push him over and then shoot him
Just just pretend to be another bounty hunter and he'll approach you without a gun drawn and say hey ig unit. Hey
Uh, have you guys seen shad's castle? It's pretty cool
Haven't seen it yet. I have not seen that video yet
You said it wasn't complete, right?
It's complete now. I did the announcement video a couple of days ago
It looks so cool. Very happy with it. Have you had anyone assault you yet?
Not yet. Not yet
Might invite it though test it out
Um, I hope you're all staying well this week don's blessings upon you lads. Yes, sir
I am staying quite well
The killing imps new theory mando is normally the doom slayer
He wanted a vacation, but he didn't want anyone knowing he left
So he hired a stand-in explains why his reputation and actions don't match also high wags
Who will?
In a new hope they put a tracker on the millennium falcon so they had reason to let them escape after that it's all downhill
Like I said a new hope passes the test as far as i'm aware. There's no scene where stormtroopers being ridiculously stupid without reason
See, I don't know they're they're missing too
Consistently, I don't like if you're saying that so they'd have to
Like if they really wanted if they really wanted them to escape
Firing on them like shooting in their direction is a very bad plan because all it takes someone to miss once. Oh
It's almost like they know how to aim
Well, that'd have to be like crack shot pervy about it's just like if that really what I think that's
An explanation that's applied. What is ad hoc or after the facts to try and justify it?
Um when in reality it's it actually seemed like the stormtroopers were trying to kill him and they were just bad shots and then
Well, the plan was for it to send it later
Uh, I don't know i'm skeptical because taking an awful risk vader if you really wanted them to survive
Shooting at them is not a good plan. Yeah, but it's a really good plan if you want them to be convinced
They're not escaping
I mean they are escaping. Sorry
Yeah, also you don't have to be a crack shot to miss somebody
yeah
Like I think I want to go back and just watch that whole sequence just to see like
How close some of those shots?
ah, because
Some pretty close and you know
I wonder if every stormtrooper had the memo to not try and kill him because it really seems like you know trying to kill him just
So i'm just skeptical and if you remember as chat point ob one says that the the crack shots
Which is why it fucking sucks far too accurate for sand people which is very racist ob one well
Which is which is both accurate and very racist?
Uh
The first part i'm concerned about
Did he say accurate or precise?
Didn't he say far too precise? I don't know i'd have to check. I can't remember either way
yeah
I mean, would you rather be accurate or precise? I guess accurate
No, like you can be precise and not be accurate. That's the problem. Precise just means your grouping is very consistent and in the same area
So you you can't really be accurate without being precise, but you can be precise without being accurate. I see
Interesting uh stormtroopers can shoot quill but not cans quill should have made himself scrap metal armor
Scrap metal armor
Why not? Yeah, why not? Well, hey, I recognize metal great armor. That's invincible
It is true. Yeah, just make those just without the holy bits
Yeah, fill in all the holy bits
At point blank we cannot shoot through it at all
Imagine kara standing in front of a stormtrooper that has great armor and she's just unloading into it and he's like
Hahaha, you cannot touch me
uh
Also, hi fringy. He would say hi. He would I swear
Sort of ironic that we get a video game about a viral outbreak that kills people during a time
We have an actual viral outbreak that kills people. Oh, Resident Evil
Yeah, it was always coming out at this point. There's been they've been coming out every two years, right?
Or is it one year? I don't even know. There's a lot of Resident Evils
Now what tism argument you've heard do you hate the most? Mine's the whole it's a kid's movie
So all criticism is invalid. Go drown in milk. Oh my
I think my most hated one is that it's fantasy. It's not meant to be realistic
So why are you you know critiquing it for how realistic the story is?
Yeah, that one's annoying as hell. Yeah, not to mention canon doesn't matter
Um, that's a pretty annoying one
That's a pretty annoying one
Yeah, I think that it I think what shad said is probably my top one as well
So that'll be my tentative answer. I might think of something even more frustrating and annoying
But I mean what a trifecta
It's a kid's thing. It's fiction and who cares about canon?
It's like wow, you've just that's it it's all over those three arguments best ones. Um
Um, why must they make stormtroopers a joke?
It's like making xenomorphs just a bunch of flies buzzing around and the defenses are it's just a joke
Yeah, and I like that's the thing. I wish they weren't jokes. I guess my contention is that unfortunately I I feel
That they have been made jokes
To the point where it's almost irredeemable from what we've seen them do
Well, yeah, like it'll be better if they can always pull it back made him
Yeah, like wouldn't it be nice if they did but I still got a lot of yeah, you know
Um humor and laughter out of them. I just blatantly do it
Thought it was great. Uh, mando reminds me of robocop but malfunctioned. Oh
Maybe there was a deleted scene mando intercepted scout troopers and bluffed to stall for time
It sounded like him and they were no dead troopers
I
Mean we'd be screwed either way if there was a deleted scene that could help with anything because it would be deleted
Finally made it to an efap. Praise the long man. Hello there
More I like you but recent your uploads have been nothing but nonsense. I'm a subbing also. Can we have blessed pipeman on again soon?
Thank you
yeah, your um your
analysis of rise of sky of course I was recently
That you were saying so much without saying anything. I'm worried. You disagree with it
Yeah, it was a bit. No. No. No, I agree with it. Thank god. I was gonna say like you guys losing it
so
What exactly do you have a problem with?
The words
Yeah, no other than that
Oh the visuals
No, no, I meant other than the words and the visuals
uh the themes
Well when I say other than the words and the visuals of course that covers themes as well does it
You were describing an emotional
Counterintuitive to the overall impression that you would want to achieve when reviewing, you know quality content
I disagree
Okay, I interpret it differently. Yeah, I interpreted that you're wrong
Yeah, I want to get good at better at that. I want to get better at saying
A lot of words that mean nothing. I think that would be great and then it's making it feel intellectual
Like it's just funny because like they say that's what I do all the time
But the first time I tried to do it, they're like, oh wow, this is a decent video
It's amazing because people who don't understand what you're saying
Sometimes just assume that it must be so high brown intellectual for me not able to understand it
That is a genius and speaking. Absolutely. That's what carries a lot of people through
All the time we get these videos and it's like every sentence we stop and we're like, wait what?
That's not correct
That thing you said shad sounds a lot like it's okay to punch a nazi
What oh that's what we were debating about um, uh that it was uh, it wasn't nearly as bad with mandalorian, uh
mandalorian betrayed the bounty hunters versus
Um what he supposedly did against his own group. Um, and I don't think that's uh, yeah, I don't think that's yeah
I don't know where you get that
Punch a nazi what the hell did j ever do to you?
Oh j is a nazi. Oh my god
Five hours in why didn't youtube notify me people re i'm sorry. I didn't notify a lot of people apparently
Welcome to youtube
I miss the clone troopers. I miss competence in star wars. We all do buddy. We all do
We miss those days glad you made it out of surgery shad golem. Make a video, please. Hi rax
Hello. Thank you, sir. I'm sure I survived as well
because
You guys probably don't know it was a life-threatening surgery. It's just so
Had to go through the wars
those are those are
you know
Risky thing for a time there, but I pulled through
Yeah, you finally killed it. You you murdered the beast with the with a rote war is the phantom sword
Shad quote i'm okay with plot armor end quote
Damn shad. Well, let's take it out of context. I object, sir
So, this is weird it goes according to my definition of plot armor
sometimes
You can use it effectively to say
Fight me
We did
Yeah, you did
But the thing is after all the definitions were described. We're like, oh didn't we kind of agree?
Possibly define something like that. I mean, what are we supposed to do?
Well, I mean what is a more valid definition of plot armor because when I hear the actual word I think like
Seems like anything that is protecting the main character by virtue of the that's in the plot. Um
And I guess look it's probably a flawed definition because your definition works just as well when you say
Something that is unrealistically protecting the protagonist that isn't justified in the story
And yeah, I think that's valid. So maybe I just need to readjust my definitions. Oh plot armor is
I've never heard it used in a non negative or sorry non a positive context
It's always negative. Um, people are always say it's when a main character is life and health and all that
They're safeguarded by the fact he's the one person who can't be removed from the story and that's the reason you read that from shadow
Well, hang on
But see that there actually falls into my previous definition when the protagonist is often protected by the virtue of being the protagonist
Because they can't die halfway through this while they can but if you don't want that
And the and the writer will arbitrarily decide that bullets won't hit him and they might hit other people
And so that's when I was kind of coming back to isn't that a form of plot armor still then if that's the definition you were using
Well, we already covered it. I mean like we started giving out reasons for
The likelihood of tom hanks's character dying versus others
It isn't that he was more likely to die and didn't it's that there's equal likelihood if anything
He's less likely because he has more experience
Yeah, that's what it's like. But ultimately he only died when he did in that movie
The decisions of the it's like they and they purposely protected him
Versus I bet he didn't feel that way in universe
No, it wouldn't but while mandalorian no, it does it does mandalorian would be like wow my arm is strong
While I don't think there'd be a point
I hope you enjoy it
So this is like this weird set where he goes the fall of shadiversity just shad shad the movie maker joseph shadison
eric shadzon
Windtiversity shadtrick williams the not so great shad guy the wrong shad
jax's shad sids
Wow, our debate much has triggered some people my gosh
But play the elevator music people just want me to play that all the time
I'll debate just go. Oh my god
At this point the benny hill theme might be better
I'll get hit with copyright. I think for that. They shad now they shad now. Oh
Hello, hello shadow mundane shad I can keep going
This is a movie about bad writing intended for shad
I think the one that triggered me most was the mundane shad one. How dare you?
Nice tv show you need a ride. How about good writing? The least you could do is give me good writing
shadual harassment
I might have to appropriate some of these
There are movies where a foundational era has to be overcome in order to enjoy it terminated to use contradictory time travel and the martians initial storm
Come to mind. I don't forgive those though. Yeah
Those are problems
My point is I don't want to get into the debate again
But like the whole jackie chair analogy that sometimes a sacrifice to realism that isn't necessarily explained in the consistency of the world
Can be appropriate if it does effectively achieve
A more positive outcome and so I think we it's easier to suspend disbelief of jackie chair and getting hit in the head so much
If we can get a longer more suspenseful, you know fight scene overall that we can enjoy
And so that's just one example of when I feel you can apply these things in an appropriate way
All right
Shad you were meant to destroy the disnoids not join them bring balance to video essays not leave them in tism
Oh, I don't know. I think you might be exaggerating a bit. Give me an example of how i've joined the disnoids and then we'll
I got loads of accusations of that from my april fools video. I was like guys check the upload date
I mean I was with you guys criticizing those last episodes quite a bit like it's not like i'm
Unfairly defending it. It's just some points. I guess I think could have been justified or you
Straight up surprised when you gave it a three for writing. I I never thought you were gonna go that low
That's what I went with. I thought I thought you liked it a lot more than that or at least thought of it higher than that
Well, this is the thing right is that I judge it according to different standards
And if you tell me if i'm judging it according to a strict, you know
Consistency in writing you might find that I have a very similar, you know judgment on it
As you but I also judge it against different standards as well and some are more arbitrary to me
And and yeah, so as the debate we had before we even went live is it's all about the standard that you're judging it against
Is my perspective
Uh getting just right vibes from shad you should make emotionally resonant art rather than one is intellectually satisfying. Is he evolving?
False equivalent sir. Give me a proper example that I was giving a similar argument as just right and then I
Such a slanderous accusation
Um, I imagine this is what congress in efap world is. Oh, yeah probably
Uh shad they are axing you if you're giving it leeway for being in the disney fanatical universe. He called him an old boy
by the blu-ray high rags
That's all references
Oh, there's definitely a spectrum here dot dot dot I I think I know what you're aiming for there mr. Zach
Shad I swear to god you're like two bad points away from tearfully asking ragged mauler if they've bought the blu-rays yet
Hashtag they called him a disnoid. Wow two references and whoa jeez
Two different accounts someone is saying I outright said bad writing and laziness is acceptable
I will push back on that because you're obviously defining bad writing in a different context to what I was saying
because if your purpose in writing something is to try and
Make something enjoyable and attain to a large group and sometimes you're like you'll more often achieve that through consistent writing
But if there is a small sacrifice for the rule of cool
That is not going to break people's emotions stuff like that. That can actually be a positive thing
I think you're being too narrow with what your definition of bad writing
Is because as a writer and I don't want to do an appeal to authority
but these are things that you actually have to consider realistically when you are writing to try and
Get the most to produce something that people will enjoy to the most amount
And i'm not saying sacrifice realism and stuff like that all the time
Or even often i'm saying if you do you need to do it carefully and judge very
Cautiously, and you can do it effectively in certain instances. That's my point
So
There are no bullets in star wars spoiler. Yeah, but they why you it's not true. It wouldn't matter
It's not like you wouldn't just you just it's like oh these blades
They have a thing in them. That means they insta kill people
It's like can we put this in a propulsion system that can be fired from like a magazine?
Slotted into a thing that I hold in my hand instead of having to learn how to accurately throw knives
It's like no
Okay, of course projectile weapons still exist
Of course they do obviously
The studies part five watch it or you're a heretic. Oh my god. I need a heretic
Missed all six hours, but i'm glad to see shadow on as are we all
Thank you, sir
Hey guys joined way late. Is mando still a mare show?
I wish it was bad crap
Um, this was some of the longest
I'm just saying you could enjoy it depend
Yeah, of course you can yeah, it's not impossible like I enjoy fast and furious movies in there
Pretty awful if you're judging it against writing standards and things, but I find there's a lot to enjoy in them
um
This was some of the longest self-aware cringe ever. That's a good reference. Hi rags
Hello. Also horizon zero dawn is coming to pc. I will keep super chatting this until the release date or until covid takes me
Oh my oh, well, I hope that it
um
Doesn't take you and that horizon zero dawn releases
Yes
to a
great amount of sales and happiness and joy
In defense of bob, I can't believe I said that yeah, I am excited about batwoman that is do not hear what we all said
That was in that we love it so much. We laugh our asses off
Would rather watch season two of batwoman than mandalori
I am thrilled whenever I get the chance to see another batwoman episode. I I can never predict what will happen
It is oh, I love it so much. It's so terrible
There you go a perfect example of loving something as bad possible
Oh, yeah in defense of barber can't believe I said that you did you need to be ashamed
The bigger issue is layer is convinced that they're being tracked but takes zero measures to prevent the umpire tracking them back to what?
Yavin for like switching ships. I agree what I would have wanted in a new hope
This is why that there is no film without floor for the most part
um
Like I really wish the layer had said more
She says like they're tracking us and he says not this ship sister and it's like if she was really concerned about that
Why didn't she take any precautions at all?
Like send a message out to yavin for in some way shape or form as they've said switch ships
There's a lot of things she could have tried but she sort of just doesn't and we didn't even get a throwaway line like
what if she said
um, we've got to get this information to them as soon as possible and uh, we can
I don't know worst case scenario move bases or something, but you need something anything
Uh, howdy rags why you know likey doom eternal
Oh a lot of different reasons it's fine
But I think there's a lot of issues with it in terms of its design and its mechanics and the story
Narrative and stuff like that and more than I want to get into at the moment
I'm still I want to play it more I guess and delve more into it. But as it is, I think it's kind of disappointing
Mm-hmm. I think it's okay. I really need to um
Actually play it. I still need to find a time slot that matches. I can give it a lot of time. But yeah
That's it. We have reached the end of stream labs and super chance. I mean it makes a lot of sense considering our audience has been
Perforated to a degree youtube. Thank you so much. Um, you too
uh, but yeah, uh, it's been fun and
Exhaustive, you know in a good way we've gone through. Yeah, we didn't talk about the themes of season one of mandalorian. So
You know
Fuck you guys. Were they really even trying to play at themes in a obvious manner? Um,
I didn't notice any broad kind of statements like forget the past burden if you have to
So you got mandalorian's life was started by someone saving him from like hardship and he does that for baby yoda throughout and
Specifically at the end they have a shot to match it one-to-one with when he was rescued
There's probably something in there you could draw out in terms of like the value of life or something
Something i'm not too bothered by it myself
It wasn't a very
Overt or obvious statement like that
And so you could draw themes out of finding certain things
But I don't think that was really that were really even trying very hard. I just here's some stories
Here's a banter daddy hunter. Let's wait. It all seemed like a sort of just like let's hope this works
And then it did and they're like, oh season two sweet
It's like let's keep going
I don't know why they ever thought it wouldn't work. It's just it in what way do you feel it works?
Oh, just the cool factor. I I never would have had a doubt
Like as long as they could literally make it to a three out of ten in terms of writing
They were going to be fine the reduction values carries everything
Literally tlj is like a two out of ten if we're being kind and it made loads of money
And you might be like well, well, how about how and it's like yeah, how because star wars is a is a franchise
That's hard to kill. They're doing a great job. I won't deny that
Um, yeah
so your three out of ten is that like purely based on the writing or is that taking into account all the other things that
Did really well like I try I try to clarify that it's for the writing entirely if I was to go
Because this is the thing uh tlj and tros and all the TFA
The actors and and um the special effects the costumes the sets the camera work a lot of the shots even it's like
You can't say that they're worth nothing
But simultaneously just because they're incredible even if they're 10 out of 10
So it doesn't just save the the writing at all. It doesn't really do anything
No, it doesn't I agree
But if you were to try and give a rating judging everything contained in including like I guess four
instead of three
What's the problem is that uh, the writing is what everything is trying to present to us
That's the point of every other detail is just an extension of the writing the visuals the sounds
All of it's just based on the writing
Yeah, I got a disproportionate enjoyment of just
How well they reflected the universe?
Um, and there was a lot of nostalgia I was able to enjoy and things and so
Yeah, that helped me enjoy it a lot than I would have otherwise
Mandalorians did use projectile weapons. They knew that jedi view blasters as saber practice. So they used slug throwers
And
Well, like we said if they block a bullet it melts it it splashes into their faces molten hot like titanium so it's just like
There you go, ah raid our raid start let's do it
Just think there's no way that in this galaxy people aren't like. Oh, yeah, there are there are obvious advantages to using
projectiles
Uh
But I still have so many efap villains to meme I know
I think shad's saying if they can somehow be quantified that he would prefer 100 cool moments
Uh with 20 issues over 30 cool moments to no issues
Yeah, it's an interesting balance what like do you guys think that would be a valid exchange if you could enhance?
The overall enjoyment of a piece if you needed to sacrifice that much the problem
Consistency is that uh, so if we were on set and we're running out of time and we realize that something doesn't quite make sense
And I could totally feasibly be like yeah guys
We need to focus on the next episode writing it right now
We can't we can't think about fixing this this is most people won't notice this let's just move on and if someone was there like hey
You're the one who always says that these things are problems that we should solve them
But i'd be like we should we just don't have the capacity to right now
but it's not even proposing that um, uh
that scenario especially if you could improve
The uh general audience enjoyment and you say you could even quantify that and I think there are ways by working off
What has been successful in the past?
Um by adding in certain coolness factors, right, but it would legitimately
sacrifice some of the consistency and realism
Would you be willing to do that if it had such a higher chances of improving the overall success?
I guess a good example would be look at lord of the rings and the ghost army
I I think they're quite problematic in terms of a writing thing and if you were like, yeah
But we don't want to sacrifice and they're so awesome. I'd be like, no, let's fix them. We can fix them
I'm sure we can fix them
And I I just don't know that there's a scenario where I will not be able to provide some level of fix that offers
Either a different kind of cool moment that's still up there or the same cool moment
We just find a different way to justify it because the way we currently have is broken
I think you're a you know, um
Acknowledgment of time frame is a valid thing to acknowledge because like for instance
like if you i've spent
two years writing a novel
and I realized that
Um, I have achieved a coolness factor of you know, like with the analogy that was given
But I do notice that there's oh there's about 20 issues that have helped me achieve that
Rewriting the whole thing
To try like oh, that's such a massive when I could probably publish it
And still get as good a return and review and enjoy and people's enjoyment out of it and write a whole additional book a sequel
For the time that would have taken me to rewrite and try and fix the problems in the first one. Um
I think that's something important to acknowledge as well
Um, especially if if it depends what goal I guess you're going for because for me good writing isn't necessarily
It's involved. I'm not saying it's not part of it
I want people to take me out of context context when I say good writing is not necessarily all about consistency
And stuff like that
Another important part of good writing is writing something that is entertaining and enjoyable and that actually should be one of the most prominent
You know goals as well as consistency. I'm not saying that these are exclusive
But that should definitely be one of the things and that's why the rule of call can be something to be considered in certain situations
where it might be
beneficial to
sacrifice certain elements for the overall coolness factor
Which is comes into that Jackie Chan fights in that
Need to sacrifice those things to have cool things
Out of the three results for me is on one hand we can fix it on the second hand
We can find a different payoff that we can definitely have work or the third is we ran out of time. I'll accept it
But it's still a fuck up
Yeah, so hang on what about my point in like do you think it's valid to try and um
Like write towards the goal of making something
as entertaining and enjoyable as possible
Which is not necessarily though. It's very connected in because consistency is important
Don't get me wrong and i'm actually a massive advocate of that in my own writing and my one of my for me
It's you're building a house in those different kinds of ways and that no matter what you do
I'm putting scaffolding up when you build it
Scaffolding is always going to be there
So
Not to build your house and if you're like I want to build a house that like and I physically can't build it
Scaffolding or not. I'm going to be like you need to change your design
So
Basically, is that you essentially saying the same thing where it's like you feel you could try and achieve the coolness with the
Being justified. Oh, yeah
I would first try and recruit
Like I would try and find a way to build that scaffolding to get you that house you want
And if I couldn't I would try and figure out with you what house can we design that you think would achieve the same
Payoff as the one you were trying to do that satisfies the scaffolding
And then finally if you were like but more i've got one day to submit this i'd be like, okay fine
Well, you know, we'll just have to yeah. Okay, fine
It's probably going to work on audiences. Just unfortunate we couldn't make it make sense
See, I don't know see sometimes I think certain sacrifices for the overall, you know
Objective coolness if you can even quantify that are fine
And I wonder if it like like maybe you could I need to think about it like could you always achieve it?
With consistency, maybe it's possible
I don't know because i'm not sure like again it comes back to that jacket chain fight scene analogy
If it would be the same thing if you wanted to make it
As realistic and you know consistent to the world as possible
By having him show the actual effects that should logically happen by him getting hit in the head so much
And I don't think he can achieve that same
No, but I don't but the getting hit in the head is actually integral part to building suspense and showing him struggle in the fighting
And things i'm not sure you could achieve as an enjoyable fight scene by
Adhering to a hundred percent realistic framework
I don't think that's true at all. Really? I don't even think you think that's true. Shad
Yeah, I what do you think? Yeah, I don't think that you really believe that
There's no way
Like like you you were the one that showed us a realistic fight. That was awesome. Remember?
Yeah, no one got hit in the head and we were like, hang on. Hang on. Which one is that the uh, uh
The sword fighting one I showed you. Yeah, the first time you really felt
That's like it is far more realistic than many others, but it's far from true realism
No sword fight would last that long. It'll be that drawn out with the exchanges
No one in the history. Like that's not how sword fights work
But they they're using realistic move
They're using realistic techniques and realistic moves and they're marrying realism
With the rule of call at the sacrifice of certain other realistic elements is actually a great analogy
That falls back into the checky-chan thing to get a better more entertaining result
They have the well you were saying that he has to get hit in the head
They were like now he doesn't know but my point is to get a more entertaining result
Sometimes you do need to make certain sacrifices with realism
In terms of because in realist realistic frameworks if you want to be consistent with the real world and internally consistent
It's just not how sword fights work. Not at all
They don't last that long or have that many exchanges back and forth like that
Or or other reflexes so quick that you can react like that so instantly to catch an incoming strike
And so again, it's sacrificing something to get a more entertaining result
But it still wouldn't break anything if they're not behaving exactly as a realistic talented swordsman would as long as they're not doing anything
That's ridiculously stupid
Okay
All right, so we can easily make arguments for like the competence of the swordsman
Yeah, yeah, but you're willing to acknowledge it's still an unrealistic element that's and then there's factors like
The force or what or special weapons depending on what fiction we're looking at obviously
I've seen fencing matches that go on for way longer than like a couple of seconds
There are problems with that as well. Um, fencing is not a quite a real sword fighting. It's a sport. So there's a lot
Effect that. Um
So, yeah, it's a very interesting discussion I think
That there was uh
An acknowledgement, um that you know that I think that is the case sometimes and I think that can
Can be carried in a further
um
Larger example where that trying to achieve the rule of call at this at that sometimes
I'm I wonder if if there's an equivalent
exchange for
Consistency with the rule of call as it is for realism in fight scenes and the rule
I'm definitely not i'm definitely not going to make a concession that something is less entertaining because it's more realistic
um
That's if anything it's hang on. Hang on. Is that is that is that blanket a universal that you're saying here?
That something can never be more entertaining. So so if something will always be more entertaining if it's
No, I think what he's saying is universally you'll never have to sacrifice entertainment from something be more accurate
Is that what you're saying? I don't know about that because that doesn't apply to fight scenes
Well, i'd say it's subjective
Yeah, I I I don't know. It's
Unenjoyable about a fight that can be realistic, especially when you have all the variables that are involved
All right, you can make things more realistic, but I like to make it 100 realistic
Again, there is a subjective element, but you can kind of judge it on success and all of this comes into
Yeah, it goes into different things. But all of those things could be realistic
Yeah, yeah, I agree there. Um, and uh, you know, it also goes into my percentage ratio that you know
Can you quantify what most people would enjoy more based on reaction and past and things and I think you can make objective?
Um judgments based on percentage values, but anyway, that's gone back to our other debate
All right then, uh, all right
I'm not saying those are mutually exclusive by the way
I assume you guys are arguing against shad that it can still be 100 cool with zero percent issues
I mean we just have to get to specific examples, right? It's going to be tough to explain all of
like it but
For the lack of very very high specific ones in certain scenes like for example if jj brim said, okay, mola
I want to have uh emperor palatine zap the entire fleet
Like how do you make that make sense?
I'd be like that doesn't make sense
And i'm probably trying to appeal to him and be like dude
We can get away with cool scenes without doing that. You don't have to have that scene
And besides you're gonna piss off a lot of people like you may entertain
Let's say 80 of the audience even that 10 percent who are like
Really like 10 percent don't care to a degree but 10 percent are like angry
Um because you're just screwing with everything it's like let's just get a different payoff with palpatine in some way
Or I mean i'd see
I'd be screwing with the entire film at that point
Yeah, and because this is what i'm saying that there's obviously a spectrum where you can go way too far with something that you're
sacrificing regards to consistency
Especially cannon and stuff like that and palpatine lightning thing is a perfect example
It's way too far because it's so blatantly in contradiction to a lot of other things and it makes so many problems with
That power level like look, you know with what they were doing with the force in that movie
Palpatine having an insane power jump is actually not inconsistent with the movie itself with what they were showing in there
There's power doing everything a thing
But they're not consistent with it because suddenly he shoots that at ray and she blocks it with a bloody lightsaber
It's like he just took out a fleet with that thing. So
Yeah, there's problems with execution and consistency with that more so i'd say
Um king brandon said it seems like molar and rags just refuse to accept all the cheesy stuff
Everyone's used to in cinema. They don't want rambo to be badass killing everybody. They want him to be a smart a tactical person
It's like yep
Yeah, I I want him to be smart and tactical if he's been displayed as that in the past specifically
I don't want him to have I don't want him to stand on a hilltop and machine gun a bunch of enemies that
They're easily capable of shooting him just because
I just be like you do know there's real easy ways to make someone badass without making them immune to damage
Yeah, i'm fine with a badass killing all the bad guys. Look at john wick
Yeah, how they do it is a really
integral part of
Whether or not I consider it, you know good or not and when we stuck up when we talk about cheesy stuff
I mean the way the cheesy stuff kind of implies that it's
Uh, especially I guess in this context
it was very
Like it's a negative context to it because it's unrealistic in a way and it's hard to accept as real
But hang on because you have acknowledged that you can enjoy things because they're bad or even unrealistic and inconsistent
And a good example is the commando movie with Arnold Schwarzenegger where you know, he just comes in and destroys everyone
And it's it is a lot of fun
It's a lot of fun with him just demolishing everyone even though they're shooting at him and they're never hitting
um
And it's kind of fun because it is unrealistic and it's just him like and so
I feel you need to acknowledge some different standards to judge what people can find entertaining because pure consistency
If you wanted to talk about what people find entertaining that's a completely different conversation. Yeah. Okay good
Well, that's it's an important thing to qualify though
If you're going to be trying to find what is or determine what is good quality or something like that
Let's let's talk about why people find tlj entertaining. Let's go
Yeah, yeah, I know and I think
Like what did they find entertaining about it is something that would be good to try and figure out
And then we could try and see all right. Could you achieve that same standard with it?
But it's not good. It's not a good thing just because they enjoyed it. Oh, I agree. I agree
Well, actually no, it depends on the standard if you're pure if your pure standard is
If it's capable of someone capable of enjoying it disregarding writing
Well, it'll be interesting to discover why I agree. Yeah, it's the same analogy with the room. Is the room a good movie?
Now objectively with the writing and so many things it's horrible
But it's one of the greatest bad movies ever made and so by the fact that i'm even capable of saying that
I'm applying a different standard to it saying it's great in some different perspective and measure like your ability to enjoy batwoman
So much it's doing something that is causing you to enjoy it
But we we can still judge that objectively with by the same standard and it comes out to be yeah
Yeah, and you can judge it according to different standards in which it would be like if you were to judge
You know
Just what we're saying. Well more when you're looking at say
Last jedi with special effects if you're judging only according to its special effects
It probably gets a high rating again. It's dependent on the standard you're applying to it
Yeah, if you want sure judge it by its special effects
Well, hey like if someone can enjoy a movie that's just about some guy doing his taxes because they really love taxes
There's probably some people who love the last jedi because they just love special effects so much and they like them
explosions, yeah
Yeah, but the key distinction which is why i'm fully on board with you guys
If that they say the movie is brilliant in every way because they just love one part so much
It's like no, did you see the writing the writing was horrible?
And so that's when someone is applying a standard too broadly saying other things were good when it wasn't
Um
Would you do monday movies with mauler where you just talk about a movie with chat ones that you take issues with or ones that
You praise could be good. Uh
I don't I don't know. Uh
I feel like my schedule's been um quite busy as of late with with everything that's been going on and um
Still haven't found time to record the next batwoman episodes. We're still gonna do that and meme videos
Um, I probably wouldn't be able to keep up a consistent monday movies with mauler
But uh, that does sound like it could be fun
Not gonna lie
Hey shad, would you do a shadow of the conqueror q and a stream could be a lot of fun
See there'd be a lot of spoilers wouldn't there though
I don't know how are and it'll be so niche a lot smaller of my audience
maybe on my you know, um
My launch, uh podcastly kind of channel what my studio has done because i'm tending to do that
Uh, that might suit that more than my main channel
Shadowverse is very specific with its content and I need to maintain that specificity to keep the views and interest up
Uh
Shad bruce lee's films featured probably some of the most realistic fighting ever filmed game of death in particular had very believing
Believable fight scenes and that film was arguably more entertaining than any jackie chan film. Ooh
Uh, not necessarily you want to say bruce lee fight scenes are 100 accurate to real fights. No most fights to great
Well, it's what was the implication that they're more realistic for he said some of the most realistic
some of the most realistic and
Yeah, there's a lot more realism in there
And to say that they're better than every jackie chan one. Well, that's a subjective thing you like so
um
You can't say they're better than jackie chan's because they're more realistic
Because again, it's subjective. Some people will find the jackie chan one's far more like better and I guess it depends on the standard
You know like a bit of humor and story kind of evolution in the fight scene because jackie chan is great at that
But if you prefer pure realistic kind of fighting, well, then bruce lee would win in terms of what you're enjoying more
Um
Moscow is on quarantine till may I guess it's time to rewatch all of efap again might be in a tight fit though
Praise the dawn
Good luck, sir
Good luck. You have plenty of things to catch up on
Palpatine tells final order fleet to fire up the new jamming tech to jam all their ships. Your rebel fleet is useless here
It's hopeless fixed
um
Oh, you mean instead of doing well if if jj was theoretically going for his giant payoff of lightning affecting all of the ships
That wouldn't be the same would it that wouldn't really be a fix because that's not very exciting for an audience to see
Palpatine going jam them all and then they press a button and it jams them be like oh plus that's just adding
Yeah, it's like why didn't you use that before?
Does all the things it needs to do and I bet we'll never hear from that again
Okay
remarkable
reshad lookin extra shaddits
shadoby
Shadman gaming gym shaddling shad table. You guys have a lot of enemies. Yeah
Sorry, hang on. Have they done the emergency shad?
No
Oh, no, that's sorry. I'm getting that one mixed up with um
with
Oh channel shad or shad awesome
Hmm
Can't forget that one. Yeah, that's um, that is it. So
I suppose the only thing to do before we exit Reno is uh,
Shad do you want to tell people to go and watch all of your videos from the beginning to the end?
All right, maula has told me guys you have to watch all my videos from beginning to end. Otherwise maula will kill you
I'm just mean like I have to say it is told me to
I told you to leave that part out of it because that's like apparently that's illegal now
Oh, yeah killing people. Yes
How stupid is that like a giant plot hole?
Got it. There you go
Link is in description and in the chat
Yeah, and I think everyone knows where i'm from by now. Yeah, you've you've been on here. Uh
To to some time you've been on here before right like an episode or two maybe one. Yeah, I think
At least once think I think
um
Welcome back shad
Hi rags
Hello and bruce lee's fight scenes are far from realistic game of death was okay. Oof super chats are fighting each other now
Um
I will say bruce lee's fight scenes are more realistic than a lot of others especially of the time
Because he was actually applying far more realistic kind of techniques
And he like he actually was like they choreographed it in the sense that his hits
Were actually having some weights to them a lot of chinese style martial art fights things of the time period
The hits have very little weight and they're constantly going back and forth and and things and so bruce lee's style really took this
in the world by storm when he you know
Started making more realistic kind of ones, but they're not fully realistic. I completely agree. They're far from what a real fight is
Um, uh, there are realistic techniques he's using but you know
Yeah, they're like if you want to see real fighting just look up certain youtube videos and you'll see how real fighting goes and
brutal
Um
This one says they buy now
Say bye now and fix your mic southpaw. Yes southpaw. Yes southpaw fix your fucking mic
All right. Um
Anything else you guys want to want to say before we hop off?
It has been a pleasure lots of fun guys absolutely mandalorian's done poor mandalorian
Can't wait for season two. Yeah
We'll be doing this again. Maybe hey random question
am I like the
Most contentious guest that gets into debates with you guys more often. I enjoy it
Like I really like going forth
But it seems like to be one of the regular things that happens when I come on
I'm trying to think of like who would be your competition. I don't think there is any
It's not a bad thing
No, i'll take that i'll take that
I'm trying to think of any but
Uh
I don't
No, I don't know. I'm not sure
Not certain maybe majorly we need to get majorly back
We should watch majorly's video with majorly
And watch him suffer as he realizes the tros ruined his video whether or not we did
um
But yeah, uh, thanks for hanging out as long as you did mr. Shad and we shall we shall always have you back
Thank you, sir. And both of you maula and rags pleasure as always
Love you guys and keep safe
Yes, we will do our best
Thank you for the donations
people runies, thanks for watching and uh rags and I shall return next week for shenanigans of some kind
um
Yeah, oh and the last one. How could I forget major shad gross?
Gross. Thank you for watching everybody. Good night. Yeah, everyone. See ya
