The chat has an updated to be refreshed,
so it's just like that from the previous stream, I guess.
Yeah, I don't know, man.
I think I'm going straight to sleep after this one.
Do you want me to put anything up on my screen
or you can share it here in Discord?
Oh, I'll give you the link when we get to that point,
don't worry.
And now we'll have a nice chat.
Before we put up something on Twitter as well,
I always forget to do that.
But yeah, I checked out your Double Blade video
and the Thanos one.
Even I, when I was watching Endgame,
I was like, that weapon doesn't seem that effective
or efficient, I should say.
No.
I think I mentioned it.
That video has exploded afterwards.
Yeah, it's an odd one.
It's almost like it has to be magical
for it to be as efficient as it is.
Well, I mean, just with the sheer strength,
because you can do very basic strikes with it,
but when it comes to some complex maneuvers
and trying to use the back blade
to make it easier for anything useful,
oh, no, no, very, very awkward design.
But that video is exploding at the moment.
Like, oh, it's crazy, so.
That's awesome, dude.
I imagine a lot of people are using it to be like,
you know, Endgame isn't perfect.
There's a lot of things to Endgame that people are.
Oh, see, I loved Endgame.
I'm actually thinking of doing a video
addressing all the plot holes in it
because the large amount of the plot holes
are actually not that bad.
They can be explained with things already present
in the movie that they showed.
And so I'm happy to hear.
I mean, I'd love to see that.
Holes are actually.
I've got to cover that film eventually,
and I still don't think I fully grasp
exactly what all of the issues
or even the system they're using for time travel is exactly.
Or we could talk about that in the stream.
That one's a fun one to cover.
If you want to.
I don't see why not.
I think Endgame's been out long enough now
for people to be okay with spoilers.
At least I hope so.
Yeah.
Oh, like I've, the director,
he actually tweeted saying,
okay, spoiler embargo has been lifted.
And I even changed the thumbnail of my video
because I was explaining the time travel in that video.
And I had to title it the confusing part explained
because people got a bit salty that
I first had time travel and the title was like,
oh, okay, yeah, I'll change that.
But now I've changed it back, so.
Bye-bye, those rules.
I'll be spoiling Endgame.
And then once the director say it's okay, you're fine.
I didn't think it was a spoiler.
I thought everyone knew that time travel was gonna be good.
Well, like, cause all the theories were talking about it.
And like, you see them in the time travel suits
in the trailers and stuff.
But apparently no, people.
Well, it's gone to a point now where spoiler,
it's so careful that you even put in a video up saying,
I very much enjoyed Endgame
because it has all the things that I like in it.
People will be like,
oh, now I know it has things that you like in it.
Like my Thanos one,
some people were even annoyed with my Thanos sword video
because I show that Thanos uses a sword
and they thought that was a spoiler.
In fact, he uses a sword.
Yeah, it's like, it's nowhere near a significant spoiler,
but there are people out there
who really just want to know nothing.
At that point though, I'm just like,
why don't you just not go on the internet?
Cause you're gonna, you're gonna find stuff.
I'd be interested to know if they've watched any trailers
at all because like you actually see the sword
in one of the trailers.
And so I guess some people don't like even avoid
watching trailers cause they don't want to know anything.
Oh yeah, you do see it.
Yeah, I remember that.
Well, you should just rely on that.
If you liked the trailer, spoiled it before I did.
So it's all good.
Then again, people might be like,
oh, I don't watch the trailers.
Yeah.
Typically four spoilers, but yeah, I don't know.
But yeah, no, me and Rags both really liked Endgame as well,
but they are, it's complicated to break down that story,
but exactly all of its issues.
I'm assuming that the ones you were talking about
were mainly to do with time travel or?
No, well, the time travel is surprisingly coherent
for the type of time travel that they were using.
They didn't explain it well,
which is why it could be really confusing in a movie,
but a whole heap of the other like potholes, you know,
about Iron Man's Gauntlet versus the Infinity Gauntlet
and why could they use it and stuff.
And then there's also the one about how did Thanos
go forward in time if they were limited
by the Pym Particles and stuff,
because technically Nebula only got a hold
of one set of Pym Particles from her past self.
So how is she able to bring the others forward and things?
Those type of potholes.
The only one I've heard to explain that
is that Thanos' team would have replicated it, I guess.
Well, I think there's an easier answer.
There was actually another set of Pym Particles left
in that time, in that parallel reality.
It was on Black Widow.
She never used them to come forward.
So the idea would be that they went and got those?
Yeah, they just grabbed those from Black Widow.
I mean, you have to take a bit of a leap to explain it,
but there is a way that they could have done it, so.
Yeah, I suppose, well, this is the thing.
I don't even get how a ship manages to come through
exactly like via the rules as we understand them.
I still don't really understand.
I was just like, oh, that's okay.
That's just bring the ship on through.
The idea is that, I'm guessing,
the suits allow them to do it in the people,
and it's like, is there a suit around the whole ship,
or is there some equivalent of that?
I don't know.
Yeah, see, that one isn't explained.
I mean, there is the mechanic in Ant-Man
where he can throw something at an object and shrink it,
and it's just one of these little disk things.
And so the kind of mechanic to shrink something large
and a larger object exists in the movies and things,
but they don't explain if that's what they do in the endgame.
Yeah, I guess the stuff like,
so if you, probably understand it better than I do,
does it split off a timeline only if you remove a stone?
See, that's what some people are trying to say,
and if they're going with a strict view
of parallel reality time travel,
not as soon as you go back in time,
you have a parallel reality.
That's how I say it.
And that's the way I feel that they should go with,
because technically, I mean,
the idea that the universe will be destroyed
if you don't return the stones
is contradicted by the fact, or they don't really care,
that Loki escapes with the stone in one of those realities,
but I guess he doesn't take it out of the reality,
so I don't say he's specifically destroyed.
I assume that she was referencing
the time stone specifically?
Oh, I don't really know,
because the whole dolmamu thing,
most people bring up dolmamu, it's like-
Yeah, the time stone is the only stone
that would have a negative effect, to my understanding,
if you removed it out of one of the realities.
All the other realities,
if you take away any other stones,
you essentially prevent Thanos from doing the snap later on,
and a couple of other really bad things as well.
Like, but you also prevent Captain Marvel,
which is just phenomenal.
Yeah, I think we feel the same on that one.
But yeah, the, because the confusing part for me,
I was like, okay, so she's like,
you cannot get rid of one of these,
you know, it'll cause a destructive timeline.
It's like, oh, but in our timeline, they're all destroyed.
Like, our current, I was like,
things don't seem to be that bad.
If the time stones are holding, sorry,
if the infinity stones are holding reality together,
what happens when they're just destroyed?
So, if anyone is gonna jump on the thing
that the infinity stones are needed to maintain reality,
that's contradicting by a couple of other things I feel,
it can actually be explained very satisfactorily.
If you just say, forget infinity stones being reliant on,
you know, reality and stuff,
and just say strict parallel reality time travel.
And if you approach it from that perspective,
it's actually fairly consistent, it works quite well.
Yeah, I was always more comfortable with that,
because people, I remember our stream of stuff,
people were like, ah, you gotta pay attention
to what she says.
She says that the stones create what we perceive as time,
or something like that.
And I remember thinking like, good God,
that's gonna make everything so much more complicated
if we take that literally.
I know, one of the things that I'm like looking at,
and I wish I mentioned in my video,
is that they essentially have the ability
to reverse aging now,
of establish that that's a thing.
Right, yeah.
Like, when they're testing it with Ant-Man,
he comes back younger,
and so Captain America's his old,
They could harness that.
Or just put him in the machine there,
put him in the machine and make him young again.
Well, what do you think about,
because that's actually a fair point
that they could have discussed, or whatever,
but what about the whole,
the entire plot is kind of subverted by the idea
that they should have began with getting more Pym particles,
by going back to find more?
Because it takes away all of the drama
of this being the one chance they have,
it's like, oh, you could have just,
and then the other thing of like,
the first thing I thought was,
when they were discussing when to get,
they were like, when's a good time to get all these stones?
And I was like, oh, remember Infinity War,
when Thanos had like all of them,
just fucking get in,
when he's being attacked by the Avengers,
and they've nearly nuked him,
just take it off of there,
that's four of them right there.
Well, now you have double the Avengers fighting him,
so he's fucked.
Yeah, all they need to do is go in
and someone grabs Star-Lord and holds him back and-
Which by the way,
I feel like we never really got that answered.
Like, Doc Strange being like,
the only way we can do this
is the convoluted way we get for Infinity War in Endgame.
It's like, Doc Strange,
what about if you just portaled Star-Lord
onto the other side of that planet?
Well, to play devil's advocate
about removing the Infinity Stones,
it was interesting, I think,
I'm not sure if they ramped Thanos's power up
in the Endgame,
because he was tough as like,
he was insanely strong without any Infinity Stones at all.
And he technically beat Cap, Thor, and the Iron Man
all at their peak without any Infinity Stones.
And so if they got the Infinity Stones off Thanos
at that point,
like, if they're gonna gauge his power off
what he was in Endgame,
they might not have been able to beat him
even without them, without the Infinity Stones.
And, but the only way then is that
if they use the stones against Thanos,
if they got their hands on them,
then that could have done something.
And technically the Infinity Gauntlet
should enable someone to be able to use them,
because that's what it was supposed to do.
Yeah, very, very, very complicated.
And I think that the more you think about it,
when you have a magical boardlet
that's made of stones of the universe,
you start to be able to be like,
what about this though?
What about this though?
What about this?
And it's like, hmm.
Well, it's funny, it's not too difficult.
All you have to do is stay true
to the rules that you establish.
Because I find a lot of writers
don't pick up on this with magic systems.
And Infinity Stones are a type of magic system.
Even X-Men powers are a type of magic system.
And just by showing how they operate,
without knowing, you're establishing certain rules.
And then if you contradict how they're used later on,
or then it's sloppy, it doesn't make sense.
You've got potholes and all that stuff.
But it's not too difficult.
But surprisingly, very few people actually do this.
It's just to obey the rules
that you previously established and don't break them.
And then they can operate pretty well.
One of the things that surprised me in Infinity War
is the fact that Doctor Strange's portals
can chop things in half when they close on people.
I saw that, I was like, that's a pretty good weapon.
Why aren't you using that?
And it technically chopped the arm off or something
of that Hulk-like monster.
See, it's bizarre that not only do we have that
as a possibility, but they confirm to us
that it can be used to chop off limbs, specifically arms.
Man, that'd be useful in other applications.
And that's the other crazy thing.
Thor straight up just chops Thanos' head off in Endgame.
So it's like, oh, so when you're thinking about like how,
oh, they can go back to the time of Infinity War
and see all of the previous Avengers holding Thanos,
he's like, literally send back Thor with Stormbreaker
and he can chop his head off.
Yeah, he was held still for quite a long time.
That's a pretty open target there.
You take that gauntlet, you go over to Earth,
you get Vision's stone, which is at that point,
that's the last stone, right?
Vision's, I think?
Yeah, I think that's it.
Yeah, because he portals to Earth.
And if you were like, oh, well, you gotta wait
for them to get it out of his head, it's like, yeah, fine,
we can wait, we can have a sit down, we can chill,
talk about the past and the future in parallel.
And yeah, I just feel like a lot of the drama
can be a little bit diffused when you're like,
why don't they just do this really obvious thing?
Like, okay, fine.
See, it's fun, because that's the challenge I have
as a writer.
I'm not sure if you know, but I'm about a month away
from publishing my debut novel, and so that's exciting.
And yeah, one of the challenges I have is
to try and find all those potential holes
in my own writing, and then trying to be honest,
all right, what's the, what would,
if someone was actually approaching this
as intelligently as they could, how would they do it?
And then, and you know, and try and address those things.
And when you do, it's very satisfying, it's like, ah,
it works.
Well, I could just have a theme.
Just have a theme, dude.
As long as you stick to a theme, you're fine.
That's how we know it works now.
A theme of humanity is always gonna prevail,
or work together is the best.
Something like that, you'll be fine.
Break as many rules as you want.
I don't like breaking rules.
No, no.
I wish more people felt that way.
I wish more people felt that way.
I wish more people felt that way.
I wish more people felt that way.
But yeah, I think the, well, Endgame,
unlike certain other things right now,
like Endgame's been looked at as something
that was very satisfying to its fans.
It gave the fans what they were looking for,
which is starting to be like frowned upon these days.
It's like the concept of being too obvious,
or being too, it's like, oh no,
that's exactly what the fans were looking for.
You can't do that.
And we had it with Star Wars.
We've recently had it with a certain other TV show
that started to do some shit that is infuriating people.
See, it's funny.
I was gonna actually say like the exact same thing
is one of the reasons why I loved Endgame so much
is that it was such a satisfying conclusion.
And it was that by doing, you know,
like the fanservice was a big part of it
because you're invested in these characters so much.
Yeah, absolutely right.
Yeah, like the idea that someone's like,
oh, they only ended, all ended up in the fight for fanservice.
I just be like, yeah, for sure.
That's why they're all there.
Wasn't it fucking great?
But yeah, like the idea of subverting expectations
is something that's actually like,
it's becoming almost like a trope of do not do this.
Instead of it being something that can be done well
or badly, it started to become a thing
that's just like, Jesus Christ,
stay away from subverting expectations.
I don't know if you'd like to give you guys an idea
because you're both not exactly
keeping up to date with Game of Thrones.
They have these things called Inside the Episode.
They play after the main episode is going
and it's just the creators talk about
some of the things that happened in the episode and why.
And it's supposed to be a nice little insight
into how things work.
And obviously they score through the roof on YouTube
for likes and dislikes sort of thing as do any trailers.
Like everyone loves Game of Thrones.
It's such a great thing.
This latest one after the three,
this is the third episode that has pissed off
the fan base massively.
I actually, I should probably check,
but even the Inside the Episode sort of videos on YouTube
are getting like slammed big time
because every one of them has comments
from the co-creators that are just like,
as if they don't even know what their TV show is anymore.
Well, I saw a YouTube thing that was recommended to me
about how they decided that What's Her Face
just forgets about the fleet and everything.
And that was like the highlight of this YouTube video.
And people were saying, what the fuck?
What?
Is that how you've explained it all away?
You know what he's talking about, Shaz?
Yeah, the fleet that shoots the dragon.
No, yeah.
So like the, because it's gone around,
it's gotten around, it's a really bad quote.
She is surprise attacked by a fleet in the ocean
while she's on her dragon.
It's pretty unbelievable as a start,
but her dragon, she has two,
one of them gets annihilated and killed.
And so everyone's complaining about that as a fan base.
Like, how does she not see the fleet?
How did the fleet turn out?
How's the fleet so powerful?
All the standard questions.
And the co-creators sort of comments on it is,
well, you know, Danny,
she kind of forgot about the iron fleet,
but it's like the most threatening thing
her enemy even has.
And it was like, wow.
But yeah, so the inside the episode for episode five
currently stands at 19 K up votes and 27 K down,
which is staggering for an official channel.
And like all of the comments are just memes
about how terrible the show is now.
Yeah, the third comment here is,
I like Joffrey more than the writers now.
I know enough about the show to laugh at that one.
So, yeah, gosh, it's a big girl, Martin Shih Tzu.
So to give you guys a crash course
on why everyone's pissed about the recent episode
is that Daenerys Targaryen absolutely considered
a protagonist of this whole show since season one has been,
she's been fighting her way to Westeros.
That's her whole thing is she wants to take back
her father's seat of power.
And the concern for a lot of people
is that she'll get to evil
because her father was the mad king
or he killed a lot of people that were innocent
and he threatened to burn his entire city
filled with innocent people,
but he was thwarted by Jaime Lannister.
And the concern is like,
ooh, how much of her dad is in here?
And we get a couple of Inklings, like she, she-
Well, this is a game of thrones,
you should qualify when you say that.
Oh, right, yeah, there's so much.
Well, so she, to give you an example,
she frees a place that has loads of slaves
and instead of like leaving it there,
all the people who are previous slave masters,
she has crucified and obviously they all die.
And if a son of one of them comes to her,
like you killed my dad when he was like
one of the only masters who actually fought
against the slavery system and did a lot of work
to help them.
And so she actually has to face consequences.
And the specific one that comes to mind
that I really should have mentioned in the past stream
was that her dragons are let free in this land,
just call it air sauce for now.
And this guy comes to her with like this bundled up
sort of sack and puts it down as the bones of a child.
And he basically says the dragon cooked
and he like ate his kid casually.
And so she's just like, holy shit,
like she has to deal with like not only her choices,
but the choices of being where she is and all that stuff.
And so throughout the show,
she just has to deal with all these things.
And like one of the recent ones where she captured
a shit ton of like a Lannister soldiers
and she told them all to kneel or die.
And one of the higher ups basically just said, no,
you're not my queen.
And I refuse.
And instead of putting him in prison,
like most of the Westeros lords would do,
and as Tyrion guides her, she just has him executed
and his son, cause his son stands with him sort of thing.
And so you get this like, oof, you know,
he's a bit morally gray sometimes, ooh, you know,
and everyone, everyone feels like she's setting up
for maybe some dodgy decisions.
And so in the lead up to this episode,
her best friend, two of her dragons,
her loyal, like bodyguard,
and a large selection of her army have all been killed.
And so she's gradually getting more angry
because she wants to take the throne the quick way,
the tough, well, the easy way, let's say,
but it'll cost a lot of innocent lives if she does that.
And so she loses her cool finally
and just decides to do it anyway, she's had enough.
And so we're all preparing for her to sort of,
think of King's Landing as a giant circle,
and then there's a smaller circle in the middle of it,
and Cersei is in the center of that smaller circle.
Everywhere has innocent people.
And so you'd think to yourself,
so she's gonna fly up to the smaller circle
and burn Cersei, and then it's over, right?
Cersei's the only reason that this war is even happening.
As soon as you knock her out, it's done.
And that seems to be her plan,
like that's how we understand it.
And so everything's great, it's all going on.
You remember those-
I had to drag it up to the throne room and just, pfft.
Yeah, easy, you might even be able to just eat it.
Yeah, you get a dragon, that shit, yeah, it's fucking mental.
And so you remember those scorpions, right?
The things that are firing like balusters
that are very, very powerful enough to kill a dragon.
There's about, I wanna say 60 of them in total
perched around the castle and on the fleet
that are just outside the castle,
or at least I'd have to check the pictures for that.
But either way, she approaches this fleet,
and this fleet that managed to kill a dragon
with three shots is a fleet of at least 50.
There's this screenshot where there's a shit ton of ships
and she's just flying directly at them.
They fire one shot at her, miss,
and then she obliterates them all.
Oh, they should have shot more than one.
I'm glad you picked that up.
I mean, if a dragon was flying at me,
I'd be like, fucking everyone shoot, don't wait for me.
Just go for it, don't even just shoot, bam, poo, pew.
And so in an instant, they're all fucked, gone.
And then there's a few of them on the walls of the city.
She makes a run around the entire city walls
and it just breaks them all.
And you're like, all right, she's destroyed
literally the only way they could possibly beat her.
So I guess-
All right, war's over.
Well, it's like, okay, so Circe is the only thing left.
And Circe, by the way, is sitting on a balcony
watching all of this, getting depressed.
She's like, man, I guess I've lost.
And it's like, oh, Jesus.
And then two, I explained this to Rags earlier,
but I guess I should give you a bit more context.
Tyrion did speak to Daenerys before the battle started,
and he said, if they ring the bells in King's Landing,
that means they're surrendering.
It's the surrender bells, look at it that way.
And he's like, you gonna call off the attack
if they do that?
And Daenerys is like, yes.
And I think Jon even agrees to take his north men
to a point of like standstill
if they ring the surrender bells.
And so Tyrion manages to get Jaime into the city
to try and do it himself.
And it's implied in the episode that Jaime rings the bell.
I'm not 100% clear on that, but it gets rung either way.
This thing happens, right?
So everything I explained about Daenerys up to that point,
she's perched on some kind of building.
He's only got the red keep left where Cersei is,
and the surrounding walls have been burned.
Everything else is fine.
But she has a choice to go and kill Cersei,
or well, that's about it, right?
Because what else would she want to do?
He hears these bells being rung,
and then she makes several faces.
There's a lot of pants of her just being like, hmm.
And then she's sort of like casually, like naturally,
I want to say that naturally,
she decides to start killing women and children.
Who?
Literal civilians.
She just flies around the whole city
burning every single part of it.
Why?
In fact, I'd say it's safe to assume
she burns everything except the red keep.
Why?
Why indeed, Rags?
Why indeed?
Why, yeah, why,
why?
So how much resistance did the city throw up?
All they had was the scorpions,
and they all got obliterated
in their like opening five minute attack.
Because it's interesting,
like I think back to any cases historically
where populace was attacked for during a siege
or if a city was overcome.
And it's usually as a type of retribution for resistance.
Because before a siege,
generally what would happen is that
there would be some type of parlay
between the besiegers and the defenders.
And the besiegers would generally say,
okay, this is your chance.
If you surrender now,
don't force us to attack you and lose any lives.
We will let everyone go free and we'll take the castle
and we'll probably only keep the leaders,
you know, imprisoned and stuff.
But if you resist, that's it.
No holds barred.
No holds barred will destroy you and everyone inside.
Make your choice.
And the thing about that is if you don't actually
follow through with the threat,
next time when you're trying to take a castle or a city,
that threat's gonna be hollow and it'll have no weight.
And so there are, you know, several,
now it's funny, people think this happened
in every instance.
It wasn't in every instance.
It's actually a very fluid,
complicated thing about the terms of surrender
and also victory and stuff.
But this is one of the ways it could play out.
And so if it's justified,
sometimes it can make tactical logical sense
if there's more battles later on and, you know,
and that was the stipulation to begin with.
But if the populace wasn't actually resisting and stuff
and no terms were given out,
then it wouldn't make much sense at all to, you know,
go no quarter on everything.
But that's just kind of my view.
And I haven't seen the episodes.
I don't have any comment.
I'll give you all of the context
because I didn't mean to imply
she doesn't go for the iron keep, the right keep.
Sorry, she destroys it last.
But the way I described it to Wolf when we were watching it
was I think of King's Landing as a lawn.
She like goes line by line, just taking out everything.
And it's like, wow.
But yeah, it gets to the degree where you can see
there's just peasants in a line,
like a woman and a child running,
a couple of others, and Danny just burns them.
And it's like, okay.
It was just no point to that shot, but okay.
A lot of people feel like it's in line with her
because of that setup I gave you
about how she like gradually goes insane.
But the only thing I think that's justified
is her choosing to kill people who even remotely
like have any kind of connection to the enemy, right?
Not peasants, the peasants are the victims in all of this.
They're the ones that can't do it.
And then they've recognized that throughout the season
that they can't do anything about these people.
Yeah, and what you said about her character is that
it seems like at no point has she shown any inclination
of trying to attack or kill someone
that she sees as an innocent.
It sounds like she's always struggling with guilt
with the fallout of her choices
when she was trying to do what she saw was right
and being pretty hard and firm.
And so yeah, it very much sounds something contrary
to her character in a big way.
And like, what is typical for medieval warfare
when it comes to peasants?
Like what is the, cause rampaging and pillaging,
I imagine they're very much victimized,
but I doubt there's an interest in erasing them entirely.
I would have thought you'd want to at least maybe
absolve them into your own sort of society.
Yeah, I said, you got to make the bread.
You got to have carpentry.
Exactly, exactly.
You got to have your infrastructure.
Yeah, it always depends.
Now, generally, of course, you would want to keep
the peasantry there because they're going to be
the means of producing wealth for you.
You want to overtake them,
but there are circumstances which arise,
which cause peasants to get caught in the crossfire.
One of the examples I know is a siege of a certain castle.
Oh, I want to look at this castle now
because it's a really intriguing one.
And so you've heard of King John,
you know, Robin Hood and King John.
Yeah.
So he gains power and he is a trash king
and he doesn't pay attention to his holdings in Normandy,
which is France.
And so the King of France, I forget which one,
I was like, was it Philip?
Might've been Philip.
He sees that there's an opening.
He like, there's no real big English presence in Normandy.
So he goes to try and take Normandy.
And one of the key castles to take
is this castle built by Richard the Lionheart.
And this is this beautiful thing,
but I can't remember the name.
It's bugging the heck out of me.
If you bear with me, I'll be able to look it up
in just a sec.
And so to take the Normandy, they got to take this castle.
And so they perceived the castle and it's taking ages.
So once they perceived the castle, right?
All the citizenry there, the people in the nearby town
flee to the castle for refuge.
And there's like over a thousand of them behind these walls.
And the castle doesn't have enough resources to feed them.
And so the defenders have to forcibly expel them
from the castle.
Now, this is interesting because we see some insight
of the mentality between soldiers and leaders and stuff.
The attacking French, just let them go.
Ah, Chateau Gillard, or Gillard is the name of the castle.
So this is the siege of Chateau Gillard.
And so, yeah, they just let like about, you know,
500 or so commoners go free and they don't hurt them at all.
Then the king, the French king comes and sees them doing
this and is like, what are you doing?
We don't want to let these peasants free
because they're a drain on our enemies resources.
So if they try and free any more citizens, shoot them.
And so in the castle, they're running out of it.
So they have to expel the rest of the,
and there's like 500 or so people.
They expel them and the French shoot at them.
And they have to retreat back to the castle
to get out of range, but the castle won't let them in.
And they are trapped.
They can't get past the French troops
because they'll be, they just get murdered
and they can't get in back into the castle.
And most of them starve to death.
And so, oh, vicious stuff.
And it's, yeah.
I was just going to say, because I guess you get
the context, I have kept this from you guys
just because I just wanted to find out how hilarious this is.
This is at the point of surrender.
Daenerys decides to do this.
And I'm not just talking about the bell ringing
and everyone basically putting their hands up.
The Lannister soldiers, their entire army,
they all drop their swords in front of Daenerys's army.
They surrender.
And it gets worse because she starts to burn them all.
And then our foot soldiers, the men of the North
decide to attack and kill all of the men
who have dropped their swords.
Oh.
And Jon, Mr. Honorable, is like, whoa, guys.
Oh, no, don't do that.
Stop.
And he grabs like one of them.
He's like, don't do that.
And then a Lannister soldier comes out of nowhere
and attacks Jon and Jon defends himself and kills him.
And thus, well, war begins once again.
Oh, there you go.
Yeah, so historically, when the citizenry,
when the citizenry got in the crosshairs,
it was generally for, and I'm speaking generally,
there'll be other examples outside of the ones
I'm just sharing here, but it would be
if they resisted quite strongly
and it was retribution for them resisting.
Other than that, it would be
if there was a particular bias or bigotry on one side
and they just wanted to kill these people
for any particular reason.
And I mean, if you look to the Crusades,
there were some examples.
It's funny, the Crusades are really complicated.
People think it was always one side
trying to butcher the other.
And there were some big cases
of some pretty heavy butchery on both sides,
but there are other cases where people were let free.
And there was far more gentlemanly warfare as well.
And so when Jerusalem was taking the first Crusades,
it was a bloodbath inside the walls.
But that's what we generally conclude,
though you can put up an argument to say
as to how reliable those accounts are and things,
because usually the losing side
will try and betray the winning side
as being as brutal as possible.
And so the accounts don't fully match up.
And so that's a complex thing as well.
But if there are grounds to just wipe out citizenry,
it does seem like having a very strong sense of bigotry
on one side is cause for it as well.
But those are really the main ones that stick in my mind.
I imagine that there's no way that it can't happen, right?
You get a surrendering faction
and then the other faction is like, okay, okay.
And then one guy, because people want me to mention,
it was one dude who threw a spear on the good guy team.
And then everyone was like, ah, fuck it, let's fight.
But it's so unsatisfying to watch narratively
because these aren't just two warring factions.
These are very specific characters doing these things.
Yeah, exactly, that's what it sounds like.
And they have reason to hate Circe specifically,
but they know that she's not even a liked queen,
that she's there through fear and force.
And so removing her would be something of a good thing
to all these other people you are now burning.
No, yeah, it would probably be more likely
that the citizenry would have joined the good guys
in this instance to attack the queen.
Yeah, and so very, very unsatisfying for a lot of viewers.
And so Daenerys now has more blood on her hands
than basically any character in Game of Thrones.
And this explains why the actress has previously,
she's got a lot of statements
that are a telling about this season,
but the one that I found interesting
was that she wandered around London
for three hours after reading it out of just shock.
Yeah, which-
Well, we got the quotes from the chick
who plays Arya Stark, I guess their character,
and her boyfriend, and now we've got her
just like reading the script.
Your actors are, the script is putting your actors
into shock, why are you doing this?
And this is not, just quickly,
because you might be like,
oh, well, everyone complains about everything.
It's like, no, this is significant.
You've got a fan base is revolting right now.
Yeah, and it's, I trust the fans in this case.
It seems like it's going the way of Last Jedi,
which is a tragedy.
And that's what, this is what I'd be considering
is like, what do you guys think you would want,
how could they salvage it, basically?
Like for me, with The Last Jedi,
I need that movie taken out of the canon
if I'm ever gonna give the main Star Wars
continuity another try.
Like, because it's destroyed everything.
If anything follows on for that movie,
I just can't watch it, it's done, it's over.
And it seems like this might be one of the,
like with Game of Thrones, with episode three,
and now what's happening?
I'm thinking like, gee,
they might, they'll probably get far,
like a really strong positive result
if they just remade this entire season.
Why, this is the problem with reality
is that for some reason, this is just out of the question.
I'm like, why not?
The writers are done, the showrunners are done,
send them on their way, they can do whatever they want.
Now, give the season the actors,
if they're not willing to come back
or they've extended their contracts,
maybe we have some trouble there.
But if everyone is willing, let's do it.
Let's remake season eight.
Like the Hulk, you know, the Incredible Hulk
was made so shortly after the Banner one,
and it did really well, because it was better
and the other one was trash.
And how many Spider-Mans have we had now?
Yeah, I know, exactly.
So yeah, gosh, I mean, it would be the greatest thing
in the world if we find out that Last Jedi
is just completely retconned.
I'll be like, all right, back on board.
And this is the thing, a lot of people are like,
oh, please let season eight not be a thing.
For me, I've been stuck all the way back.
I didn't like season five that much at all,
and I would happily retcon that.
But the thing is, like, we're at the point now
where it's like, season eight is that specifically bad,
that divorced from other kinds of bad,
that it's like, no, please, please get rid of this one.
Like, I'm not kidding you, I'm not like, memeing.
I'm like, please, this is really bad.
The joke is now, it's like, who haven't they ruined?
Which character isn't damaged by this season?
And it's like, oh, yeah.
I'll tell you what though, the memes have been fantastic
from fan bases, amazing stuff.
I love, like, just the whole meme culture that's around now.
I think it's just awesome, it's just the best.
Great way to deal with the pain.
It really is, like, it's such a succinct way
to communicate an idea that it's awesome, it's so good.
How do you get more dragons?
How do you get more dragons?
Yeah, like, where'd they come from?
They were extinct, and then Daenerys had three petrified eggs
that she brought into a fire that, like, brought them to life.
There's no real, like, reasoning for that,
other than that's just, it's a magical thing there.
She didn't have them fuck or something?
Nope.
Yeah, see, like, with how rare they are,
I would've been thinking, that's one of the first things
you'd probably wanna do is get more dragons,
and they are so damn powerful, not if, they just are.
Yeah.
You want more of those things.
Well, see, episode four was like,
oh, it turns out the dragons aren't very powerful.
And then episode five was like, no,
they're the most powerful thing in history.
There's nothing that can beat them.
You're like, oh.
And it's so confusing,
because, like, I mentioned this on,
I can't remember which stream it was,
but I think Rags might have been there,
but I was talking about how my,
oh no, it was the one Rags was away for with the act man.
Basically, I had a dentist checkup,
and she saw I had a game,
like a shit that had Game of Thrones related things on it.
Like, oh yeah, I watched that show too.
And I was like, oh yeah, you know,
and you know how it is as a critical person
when you're in sort of normal social environments,
you're not gonna be like, oh, I hate it,
it's the worst thing ever.
You're just like, oh yeah, no, it's great stuff,
fun stuff, you know, you like it.
And the dentist told me
that they were not liking this season,
that it was nonsense.
And it was just like, oh God,
there's loads of memes in our community
about like, even dentists hate it.
Like, we're pretty much done here.
It's insane.
Are there some people holding on
to their love of the series that they're just like,
no, it's good, and I'm gonna look for any reason
to try and justify it?
Yeah, we'll do that with the last Jedi.
We'll see.
Well, that's the thing, yeah, like,
it seems like that was the kind of reaction with Last Jedi,
there was a lot of people still holding on to,
no, it's good, I really liked it.
But you know, now the dust has settled,
I find a lot of those people,
they'll actually come over and start to realize,
yeah, the movie's pretty bad.
Which is the thing, right?
You can be on, sometimes people can hate,
say, hate a thing for no good reason,
or something like that.
And you could be the one guy who's like,
no, no, no, guys, you're missing,
you're missing the important parts of it
that do make it make sense.
And there's a lot of people like that right now
who feel as though fans are taking this too roughly,
that this was always gonna be what Dany did,
and it makes sense,
and that she's caused the deaths of innocent people before,
and you're just mad,
because there's loads of takes like,
referencing quotes from far long ago,
where she'd be like,
I'm gonna raise the kingdom to the ground,
and everyone's like, yeah, awesome.
But it's just like a reality of,
you don't kill women and children
who are running for their lives,
like there's no heroic protagonist
who can do that justifiably in like a TV show narrative,
like to the point of thousands,
without us being like,
where it is.
You're bad, you're bad now,
you're on the shit list.
Pretty much, and a lot of people are like,
you could have done it if maybe we had more time
to turn her evil, it's really quick.
Like she was essentially
the altruistic godlike character,
near the beginning of this season.
Whoa.
Things happen.
And so yeah, these people-
She just had a bad day, guys,
you don't know how it is.
It was that time of the month, clearly,
and you don't know what could happen during that time.
You wake up on the wrong side of the dragon,
and you gotta roast some peasants by the thousands.
And yes, so give it time, give it conversation.
Game of Thrones, I am certain Game of Thrones
will be looked back on like lost,
and certain other TV shows are just like,
oh God, how it ended though.
How it ended though.
That's a tragedy, that is a tragedy.
Cause like, but we got the books,
that's the good thing.
See, I've got the first one right here.
And so I think I'll just get into the books, the novels.
Yeah, I'd love to hear your take on the books, honestly.
Do a book review, go for it.
I'll need to get through it.
I do have it on the-
You know, just finish the books,
since he doesn't apparently-
That's the thing, this is why I've been holding off,
is that the series isn't finished, right?
That's true.
And so when I hit where it's up to, and it just ends,
I can't, oh gee, that bothers me to no end.
And so I've been kind of holding off,
really getting into the books because they aren't finished.
He's taking his time.
So yeah, something to show you.
This happens in the episode.
So this is a link, I've just sent you guys,
it takes you to an album.
The first screenshot you can see
is where they're standing at the time.
Second is the Pierce,
third is just him grabbing the blade fourth
as it comes out the other side.
Now, this is essentially the boss of the King's Guards,
fighting against a guy who's pretty strong in fairness,
but I'm so done with seeing swords
pierce like two sides in the body of armor, like-
I can't stand it.
This is a big part of my life.
That's right, I just beard out.
I call it a lightsaber moment.
I criticize myself, man.
Is when swords suddenly become lightsabers
and just can destroy everything.
Unless of course, it's a main character.
The only time, I mean, there are examples
of armor working well, but for the most part,
armor generally never works in Hollywood movies,
unless it's being worn by a protagonist.
Then it's fun and it can save them a lot.
To make it worse, I'm pretty sure,
judging from these photos, if you guys can sort of tell,
the dude is wearing chain mail
and then plate armor on top.
And this means that the sword pierced
a layer of plates, then chain mail.
It's like, armor's like a magnet.
If you have a positive and a negative,
like chain mail and plate, they cancel out.
They cancel out, yeah.
It's essentially like you're not wearing armor at all.
That's just a mistake on his part.
This is another reason why this stuff
just annoys me to no end, right?
Is that armor creates a problem,
like if you're fighting someone in armor
and you have a hero character trying to beat him,
it creates a problem that they need to overcome.
You have instant conflict that you can then milk
for good narrative storytelling to figure out a way,
just in the fight scene.
You don't even need to go too far in plot,
just the narrative of the fight scene itself
for how the character gets through
and defeats their opponent.
And so this idea of just, you know,
stabbing right through armor, not only is it unrealistic,
it also misses out on something that could be really cool
because actual historical combat like that,
when it's used realistically to get around problems
like this, it's really engaging
and it just looks amazing and stuff.
How much cooler would this have been
if a guy grabbed the blade of his sword
and did a Mordhau strike with the cross guard
going through the guy's temple, or something like that?
Yeah, or he has to wrestle him
and get a dagger in his eye or something.
Or have to push him off something really tall,
you know, something creative, not just,
mmm, stab.
Yeah, exactly.
Chaos Zeke said he removes the armor
and there wasn't chain milk.
Chain milk.
Chain milk.
There wasn't chain milk.
So interestingly, after this sword gets pulled out,
I don't have a screenshot for this,
but the guy he attacked takes off all of the armor,
it all comes off.
It's almost implied that this stab managed to make it
so that the armor failed to stay on.
But it does look like I said, in the last screenshot,
it really does look like he's got chain mail
underneath the plate, if you look zoomed in.
So I think it all just falls off at once.
But the thing is right, the context is,
this guy is a zombie that he's fighting,
so this doesn't do fuck all anyway.
He has to do other things to kill this guy.
But I just, seeing it, I was just like,
oh my God, what is it with this show?
Because I don't know if you saw my rage video
for the other episode right the way through,
but I showed a clip from a previous episode in season one
where armor works the way armor's supposed to.
And it was really cool.
Oh yeah, I did see that.
Yeah, and that was actually an element of the storytelling,
because I've seen that fight scene.
And yeah, he just, the Dothraki hits him on the side,
does spit all, and then it gets jammed,
he grabs the weapon, just kills him.
Yeah, it's a really nice and simple kill.
And it makes sense.
Yeah, they were using logical realism,
and that was kind of a good reflection
on the more realistic approach
Game of Thrones had once upon a time.
And it's interesting that this stuff is happening
at the same time when the plot and realism
with what the characters would naturally do
based on their personalities just going out the window.
It's all tooling apart.
If you guys would like to click this link,
the first thing I wanna bring up again,
and this is just, I know this is basically
just shitting on Game of Thrones day,
but why not, because there's a reason for this, but-
Things, you do it because you like the show so much
and you're disappointed.
Like, this is why I have such victory
all against the last Jedi is because I love Star Wars.
It was so good, and it was just ruined.
So this is season four, episode five,
and I, oh, really?
Hang on.
Every time I choose the one that I want, it's blocked.
I'll be able to find a backup one.
And yeah, obviously this will be,
this is copyrighted stuff,
so I'll just have to pause a lot,
but at a particular point I'm gonna,
unavailable as well.
Give me a sec.
Yeah, because like there's more than one,
this is the thing,
if you have another character explaining,
or you know, visually showing you what armor is with,
the clip I'm looking for,
which apparently I'm not allowed to show,
maybe it's tied to like something else,
but he basically-
What's this video on YouTube?
I don't think I, because there's a cut,
I wanna move around it a little bit.
It'll be tough,
but I might actually have no choice here
because I can't seem to find a third alternative.
Well, while you're doing that,
I'll just share some of my own,
also pet peeves about the whole armor thing as well.
Yeah, go for it.
I'll do screenshots, that'll work.
It seems like when they show the armor working
in movies and TV shows and stuff,
it's always full plate armor and everything.
And, but the thing is,
there's so many other types of armor
that are just phenomenally effective.
Male, you know,
and just even padded armor,
gambeson and leather and stuff.
Like leather, rare, there's a whole other subject,
but even if you do have types
of more historically accurate leather armor,
this stuff is good,
and you wore it for a reason.
And I would love it if a movie actually did a scene
of someone wearing like a really thick quilted gambeson,
which is a type of quilted armor.
And this stuff is actually surprisingly effective
at stopping certain types of arrow fire,
depending on the type of arrow head.
And it'll be this,
it'll just be such a good scene
if you had this character wearing this gambeson,
and he just gets pelted with arrows,
but because they're the wrong heads,
they don't penetrate, but they get stuck in the indig.
Cause they get, when you shoot a gambeson,
the arrow does get stuck in,
but they don't fully penetrate.
And so you can have this hero character
who's just pincushioned with all these arrows,
but they haven't penetrated fully
and is still just going at it like a beast.
That would be awesome.
And so it's another cool narrative element
that you could employ
by looking at things more realistically.
So even when I'm playing Mordhau,
and I've got a character that I make
who's supposed to be like very nimble and light,
I'll still put a helmet on him
to prevent the one-shot kills to the head.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, it's really important.
I love seeing it work.
It's satisfying.
It shouldn't just be a uniform.
It is satisfying.
It's details that you pick up on.
When we were watching,
and when Mahler and I,
I think Wolf was there too,
when we were watching Terminator 2,
they pay, they're accurate to the amount of rounds
weapons have, and the characters have to reload weapons.
And that creates an amount of tension
when you know that you just can't shoot indefinitely
at the bad guy.
Yeah.
Armor is the same way.
Yeah, these little details,
and they really, really help.
So this is the timestamp.
If you just jump with that video
and just play it, you can play it on mute if you want,
but I'll show it for everybody as well.
People will know about this
if they've watched any Game of Thrones,
but the idea is that the Hound is trying to teach Aya
that it doesn't matter how quick you are
or whatever, if you're against somebody with armor,
and then she goes to stab him with what is a very sharp,
yeah, and he's so unimpressed by her
and just slaps her down.
So that-
And I'm just having a closer look at his armor here.
This looks like Brigandine.
Let's have a look.
Okay, there's a lot of studs on the front.
If those studs are holding metal plates
underneath like a layer of cloth or leather,
yeah, metal, it doesn't matter even how pointy it is.
If it's like solid plate made to a good level of quality,
you're not gonna get thrown with a sword.
So that's a great scene.
What happened?
Oh yeah, and to clarify,
it's not that swords cannot pierce plate armor, right?
It is possible in certain contexts.
It depends.
Generally, if it's plate armor, right,
and it's made to a certain level of quality,
like it's not tin-plated dirt or iron,
no, swords will not penetrate the plate.
It's almost, I'll go so far to say impossible,
unless you have insane amounts of power behind it.
The circumstances in which you will penetrate plate armor
is if you're on a horse and you have a couched lance
and with a full gallop,
then you have a chance of getting through it.
But even then, proper made armor is made to deflect strikes
like that to the side.
It isn't a flat impact on a flat surface.
And so more often than not, things like that will deflect.
So the way that you get through armor
is going through the gaps, the joints, okay?
You can get through mail,
but people think mail is just,
if you're thrusting and you've got a pointy weapon
like Arya's weapon here,
that it'll always go through mail.
No, no, it's much tougher.
And that's the thing, it was fun to see it.
Cause it was like, oh,
actually like paid attention to the point
where they're having stuff like that.
But it's just thrown out the window as of recently.
Well, I say as of recently for a long time.
What does it do to this scene?
Yeah, what happened?
Cause that's great.
Like, oh, that's exactly how it would go.
And yeah, just a real shame because you'd think
that these are the things that they would wanna maintain.
Like it's like, oh, you're a medieval show,
celebrated for your sort of accuracy, details,
even though the production stuff for their clothing,
a lot of people are always ready to talk about
how great they do for that.
By the way, the videos I actually wanted to pull up,
I've watched them with people I've watched together before,
but now it keeps telling me that
layback on other websites has been disabled by video owner.
So it's just like, oh, okay.
There's a couple of ones I wanted to go through
or at least casually,
but I suppose I can just talk about them instead.
So this video will take you to,
and again, you can just sort of scan around it on mute.
I'll try and get it up for people to...
The idea is that John is trying to sort of rescue
the people who have been held captive
by rogue members of the Night's Watch.
And he bumps into Karl Tanner,
who is essentially their boss.
And he wants to have like a sort of fight with them.
If you look at the place that they're in,
it's quite small.
Daggers, he's using daggers.
And yeah, he's got two daggers.
This is sort of choice of weapon
and John obviously has the longsword.
And they're in a very small environment.
So a lot of people were just like,
there's just no way John can win here
because he can't even get like a swing
or barely even a stab.
Oh, see, I have seen like actual HEMA practitioners
practice daggers against swords.
And there are ways like, you can win with a dagger,
but you need to fight very intentionally
and very specifically.
Basically, you have to block the first strike
from the longsword.
Because if you don't, you're dead, it's game over.
And there are so many disadvantages piled against you,
especially with reach, right?
But one of the best ways to block like a sword
is if it's coming in with a strike.
And so if you're fighting with someone with daggers,
you generally do better thrusting than swinging.
But of course, he's only doing swings here, right?
And even then, you still have a big advantage with reach,
but if you can block one of those strikes with a dagger
and lock it away, you just rush them
and just go crazy stabbing at the throat or something.
You can win, but it's very difficult, very difficult.
People always think it's an even fight.
No, it's profoundly skewed in advantage
of the person using the sword.
And if they have any brains on how to use it,
the guy with the sword will generally always win.
You could even, you could half sword with this, right?
Or to fight.
Well, it's funny, like the confines here,
people, again, try, like, this is, I think,
a more role-playing trope that comes from like D&D,
where you always get a penalty on your attack role
if you're in confined spaces, no matter what.
And people look at the scenes,
like, well, this is confined spaces.
Not really, there's a decent amount of room.
And, because you don't do wild swings of a longsword.
You do controlled swings,
and the sword is usually always kept within your center
of gravity and stuff.
And so you only need like half a meter on either side
to move this sword around, you know, almost fully.
It's only in the big, wide, heavy swings where you need more.
And then if you're also focused on thrusting,
you're not really at a disadvantage in this situation.
Most people's take on it was just the fact
that it's such a small, confined sort of fight.
Like, if it was an open space,
then the sword is pretty much gonna definitely win.
But there's so little space to move and swing
that the second the dagger man gets in, it should be over.
Because the dagger will just, you know,
in and out, in and out, in and out, over and over again
with both of them, potentially.
Yeah, I mean, that's the thing.
You don't want the dagger person to close the distance.
And so that's where you always keep the point of your sword
on point, right, you know, along the center line.
And if I was doing it, I'd actually wait
for the dagger guy to try and engage the blade
to try and push it aside with his knives or something.
Because then all you have to do is withdraw your blade,
deny him the opportunity of engaging it,
but then his daggers are already in a position,
you know where they are.
And you can re-engage where they're not
because you're right there
and then stand right into the chest or something.
Because we know your armor doesn't do anything
in this series.
I'm looking at the guy's armor.
It looks like thin dress leather,
like that wouldn't stop anything.
That's the other thing about leather.
People think leather armor was huge.
Everyone uses it, so they put it in fantasy everywhere.
And when they put leather, you know, armor in fantasy,
it's thin, thin like dress leather,
which honestly, that won't stop, it'll barely stop anything.
There are basic cuts, of course,
but a good thrust is not gonna do spit against.
I think you guys might have left the watch together.
The Oberyn and the mountain fight,
actually I can actually pull it up, luckily.
So that's good.
If you guys wanna jump back in,
then I could at least scan around it.
You mentioned it before,
was there anything off the top of your head
you wanted to mention about it first?
Oberyn and the mountain.
Oh, gee, it's been too long for me
to mention specifics about it.
I liked his sword.
It's a beautiful, big sword.
I wonder, Oberyn is using one of the partners.
Oh, you mean, right, right.
Yeah, I'm talking about the other sword,
the other guy is using...
Which guy, is he the mountain who is fighting, or is he?
Yeah, the mountain's the big dude,
and then Oberyn is the viper,
or at least I think that's what it is.
Yeah, the sword is using his eye.
It's so big and beefy, it just looks awesome, right?
He's very much the best knight sort of stereotype
you could be at that point, this size, weight, height.
It's a top tier knight,
you just need a shield, I think.
Yeah, but I would need to probably watch it again
to point out specifics.
It's just been too long since I've seen it.
My general impression from what I remember
is that it wasn't too bad of a fight scene,
just from memory.
How common would it be to have less so...
I know that spears were relatively common,
but a spear in this regard,
using it in combat like Oberyn does,
where it almost seems like it's in replacement of a sword,
like he's using it so efficiently that it comes across
as he clearly values it over a sword,
even in close combat sort of thing,
as opposed to just preparing for a specific goal.
Oh, it's fully viable.
Spear is a devastating sword, even 1v1.
A lot of HEMA groups have tried it,
and there's even other really good
kind of medieval history related YouTube channels,
Scholar Gladiatoria and Lindy Beige.
They did a collaboration.
Yeah, the collaboration, swords versus spear,
one-on-one and in a lot of other situations,
and the spear just dominated.
When I say that, it wasn't like flawless victory
in every case, but generally the spear
always came out on top versus the sword.
So yeah, even in one-on-one, the spear is just phenomenal,
but there are problems with the spear
that make it not like the...
Because there's no such thing as the ultimate weapon.
It's always about situation, the context that you're in.
And so the things that the spear...
The opponent, the ultimate weapon,
it's the best thing ever.
Of course it is.
The spear is like not great against multiple opponents.
It's hard to keep multiple opponents at bay.
Sword, you can do pretty wide swings,
and so that's a big advantage with a sword.
Sword is more convenient, more easy to carry around.
And though the sword isn't as good at thrusting
as a spear is, it's much better at cutting than a spear.
And so it really depends on what you're doing,
what you need, the circumstances you're around.
And also just what you're practiced in as well.
Even if a spear might have an advantage,
if you are simply better with a sword
because you're trained with it more often,
you're not gonna pick a spear in a one-on-one fight.
You're the one that you can fight better with.
If we were to assume these guys
are the best of their ability in this scenario,
and then I guess you'd probably need to know
the specifics of their actual armor as well,
because it looks like Oberyn's wearing leather
while the mountain's probably got plates, I think.
Yeah, see, it's interesting,
because I've done sparring against a spear as well.
And the spear can be very difficult to fight with
when you close the distance.
And that's what I found.
If I was fighting against someone with a spear,
all I needed to do was deflect the first strike.
I could, that's like a, yeah.
And because as soon as you get past that first strike,
if you close the distance then, and just,
because the sword, you can cut the sword
right up towards the hilt.
And so you actually can fight in fairly close quarters
with the sword still, and you just rush them.
And kind of like daggers against sword is reversed.
In this situation, you wanna fight with the sword
like you would be fighting with the daggers.
If you're fighting daggers against sword,
but in this case, it's sword against spear,
yeah, you just rush them.
And so you can win effectively
if you can exploit the weaknesses that the weapon has.
Because obviously the way this fight goes
is that spear can't do much
until he starts targeting the weaker areas,
like splits between the armor,
or I think behind his legs is where he gets a few hits in.
Yeah, see, if he's getting a few hits,
because if he could rely on his armor,
this is the other thing that a lot of HEMA,
like even HEMA fighting and stuff,
it's all about most of it is training
as if you are unarmored.
There is of course armored HEMA,
historical European martial arts,
but the fighting style is completely different.
Because, and what I see in movies and TV shows
is it's always as if they're fighting as if they're unarmored.
The way that they wanna keep their guard,
the way they're always trying to block
every single strike that comes in,
but if you're wearing armor,
you know you have a huge amount of protection.
And so the mountain in this instance,
if he could rely on his armor,
he could just let Oberon land one strike or whatever,
rely on his armor and just do a huge swing
and chop the guy in two.
Because this is one of the other big advantages
of having such a large sword,
is when you do a big sweeping strike,
that's a large area that you're covering in a big attack.
And so it's the only way to dodge it is kind of to move back.
If you try and duck under it,
you just put yourself in a worse position,
you can get destroyed.
And so it becomes a bit more difficult
to actually dodge a cut than it is for a thrust.
And so there's another pro and con between sword and spear.
And so yeah, the mountain,
he could just take a hit and destroy him,
but movies and TV shows, they never, well,
they rarely do it.
Because we do see that once with the,
what's the bodyguard versus the Druthraki guy
that we mentioned before?
Oh, that's Jorah.
He takes it in on armor.
Yeah.
He just takes the hit on armor and destroys him.
That's fine.
That's, you know, relying on your armor.
So there is an instance of that being done in TV show.
But of course, they just kind of give up on it.
That's, that should be the standard rule.
If you're always wearing armor, rely on it.
Use the damn stuff, because it's really useful.
Interestingly, because of the way this fight ends,
I'll try and talk about it once we get there.
But talking about the wide swing sort of thing,
like he splits his spear in two here
and makes it like pushes it away,
which is always going to be a benefit
that his sword isn't always going to be able to crack down
on a wooden spear with a tip, right?
So if it was a, is this,
they would have steel spears, would they,
or would they not?
Well, the thing is, like in reality,
swords aren't great at chopping wood.
They're not really made to do that.
And so unless it's a huge sword,
and granted in this fight with the mountain,
he is using a huge sword.
So that one would have much higher chances
of getting through it, like a hardwood staff
or shaft of some kind.
But regularly, a sword in a random fighting situation
will rarely ever chop hardwood into,
for one of the other reasons, right?
You can do it if the wood is actually like
stuck into the ground and is braced
and won't like sway away.
But in someone's hand, if you hit a shaft really hard,
you just knock it aside
because there's so much more give with someone holding it.
And because of that, it's not braced against anything.
You never will really chop through it.
And there are some instances which things did break off
because of damage or abuse and stuff.
And so what they did, they added,
I think they're called lenions or I forget the name.
They're basically metal braces on either side
that run maybe a foot or so down the shaft.
And so you see this on poleaxes.
If you look at like some poleaxes,
you'll see these metal strips on either side,
which is just to fix the head on the shaft
even more securely.
And with those things,
there is absolutely no chance you're ever gonna
chop the head off either there.
So they're like, yeah,
rarely would ever happen in reality.
Not to say I can't, but just rare.
Yeah, because the one part we're about to get to.
So if we assume this is one of the sharpest
and strongest spears going,
would it be possible if you sprinted a guy with,
let's just say some of the top rated plate armor,
could you pierce it?
No.
No, it's metal.
Like if it's hard and steel, no.
What about, I don't know if you can,
if you're in sync with the video,
but I don't know if you can make out
what kind of armor the mountain's wearing here.
I actually don't have the video up.
I didn't get the link.
Oh no, it's in the wash together.
Oh, is that?
Yeah.
Sorry.
I've just been, it's good.
It's just a visual for the audience they can see,
but I was just gonna say, if you,
can you see it or not?
I don't have it.
You're in the wash together, right?
Don't know.
I'm just in the chat.
The link, this link, it says you're in here
because I think Rags always shows up with an actual face.
I'm assuming it's you.
Yeah, boy.
Oh, hang on, I see.
Okay.
I thought that was just a link to a single video
and we had moved faster.
Oh no, I can swap them out and stuff.
I'm with us now.
So wait, Rags, you've seen this whole time, have you?
Yeah, I've been watching this whole time.
Okay, cool.
45 seconds.
That's, yeah.
So just let me know, Shad, if you can see
what I'm talking about.
Yeah, I'll put this down.
Now it's laggy.
If you, what can you discern from the mountain's armor?
All right, see, this is interesting.
It looks like a type of coat of plates or brigandine
where you see distinct squares kind of underneath
a leather facing by the look of it, that's riveted.
Now, if those are proper, like hardened steel plates,
a spear isn't gonna get through it.
But the thing is, the way this is made,
those plates, they are separated.
And so you could stab through them actually quite easily
if you can land the spear in between those things,
which is, funnily enough,
why this type of armor was never made in reality.
Like if you have a coat of plates,
the plates are much bigger and they overlap
on top of one another on the edges.
So it's much, much harder to get in between the gaps.
And yeah, I think that makes sense.
I don't know if we can see it from the actual hit.
It's not playing for me anyway right now, which is great.
But we can assume then that that's what he does maybe.
At least it would make sense that way.
If you land it in between those plates,
yeah, they could get through.
But that's one of the pet peeves I have
with Game of Thrones armor design.
You see the classic Stark armor
in the beginning of the series,
where you see the main guy, Sean Bean,
wearing at the beginning of that armor.
You see distinct plates underneath this leather,
but half-centimeter gaps in between the plates
is like, that's a big opening right there.
It almost, if you can see it there,
it almost looks like the armor's flapped up.
He's managed to stab him.
Maybe, yeah.
Yeah, which is just unfortunate
in the case of the mountain at that point.
That's the last thing you want.
So the spear could feasibly stab through
like a strong gambeson, do you reckon?
Yes, feasibly, yes.
See, gambeson's do better against cuts than thrusts.
And so if you did want to get through a gambeson,
you do want to try and thrust.
And there is a better chance
that you could get through it in those situations.
But not to say in every situation,
there are many situations
where gambeson protects quite well.
You actually would have better chances
thrusting through a proper gambeson
with like a spear or weapon,
than you would shooting through it with an arrow.
If the gambeson has the right amount of layers,
it is surprisingly effective
at protecting against arrows and stuff,
unless the arrow is like a specific type of arrowhead,
like a bodkin or something,
then it has better chance of getting through.
So yeah, it depends.
It's always very...
Oh, there's the another one I was talking about,
the stark armor.
See the gaps between those plates?
Yeah.
Like that bad design there, not good.
I mean, is that plate or is that like,
it just looks like leather to me?
Well, see, it looks like a leather face
with metal plates underneath that's being riveted.
So it's a type of weird coat of plates.
A real coat of plates, yeah.
Like they're not designed like that.
They're made to actually protect the wearer.
Oh, of course I've completely forgotten,
as I always do.
It's amazing.
Chad, we have a running thing with this podcast,
with each of the guests and the hosts,
to guess who do you think will be the most inconsistent
character in relation to the past writing that they've had
in episode nine of Star Wars?
And you cannot vote for Kylo,
because that's the obvious choice.
And you cannot vote for Palpatine and Lando,
because they're obviously going to be ruined.
So who do you think will be the most poorly written,
screwed up?
Rey.
You're going for Rey?
Well, just going off track record, I guess.
I could be a bit harsh on Rey,
but she really just fell apart in Last Jedi and everything.
And yeah, I would probably say Rey, but it depends.
Because JJ is back at the helm,
and I think it's funny.
You know, I actually was close to making a reaction
to the trailer for the next Star Wars,
because it just looked like they're doing the same mistakes.
They're falling back on relying on nostalgia
and flashy vigils and impressive fighting and things.
And especially with that Palpatine laugh at the end.
Like, that is so cheap.
It's like, we don't have any confidence
in writing a good story.
We're just going to bring back something
from when Star Wars was good
and try and shoehorn it into this one.
So we'll get you to watch it.
Yeah, I genuinely, I think you can make a good argument
for literally any character
being the most inconsistent at this point.
That's where we're at.
Yeah, go ahead, Rex.
What was interesting is I was reading the comments
on that fight we just watched.
And there's a lot of people saying things
essentially to the effect of,
remember when Game of Thrones was good?
Yeah.
That's season four.
That's when I was at my peak investment.
And that fight has always been looked at
by a lot of people as very, very good.
And it looks like it passes Shad's inspection
from what I can tell.
Well, unfortunately I miss most of it when we watch it.
Oh, well, I'll just pretend.
I'll go on February.
Yeah, we'll just say it was great.
With this one, you don't really need to know the context.
It's obviously a group of dudes.
Yeah, I will just say on the end of the last one
is even though its ending is graphic as all hell,
I do like the fact that they show fights can get mixed up
and that there's grappling involved in things
because that was reality as well.
Fight's good to generate.
You can grab the opponent's blade.
It's a realistic, gritty kind of approach.
As to, could he do that?
He's obviously in fiction.
He has the strength,
but the actual ability to crush someone's head
with your hands.
Yeah, you're gonna need an Iron Man set of like hands
to be able to do that probably.
Yeah, like.
The mountain is a large person.
I just haven't researched, you know,
the techniques of crushing someone's head with your hands.
So I can't really say how realistic it is.
Yeah, you know what?
I assume there is a level of strength someone could reach
that they'd be able to do it.
I just don't know if there's it happening.
Maybe the argument is that he pulled the skull apart
by putting both thumbs in each eye
and then sort of blew it up.
I don't know.
Either way, graphic as hell, as you just said.
That shocked a lot of fans forever.
But yeah, so this fight is two dudes versus five,
I think, one, two, three, four, five, six, okay.
And in the lore of Game of Thrones,
this is the sword in the morning is his like nickname.
He's Arthur Dayne,
supposed to be the greatest sword in Westeros
at this point, I believe.
And he's like accolade as he defeated the smiling knight
who's supposed to be the greatest previous to him.
And yeah, so the good guys are trying to get into the tower
and these guys are defending it.
So if I can try and just,
we'll try and play it nice at a clips
and then see what you can see for an interesting commentary.
But already we're dealing with the fact
that these guys seem to be in a much better armor setup
with what they have compared to these dudes.
Well, it's interesting, right?
If they wanted to win this, okay,
it's so funny and it annoys me.
It seems like whenever there's a castle in a movie,
they just ignore the fact that they have the castle.
If these guys really wanted to stop,
these guys getting in the castle,
they would stay in the castle and shut the door.
Walking out on open ground is just an invitation
for someone to use archery as a,
just shoot them from a distance.
It's an open invitation.
And so this will be my first comment on this fight
is that, okay, if they really wanted to beat
one side or the other,
I mean, the guys, the Starks, they got shields.
We see some shields here.
So they have something that can protect against arrow fire.
The other guys, I didn't really see any shields there.
And so that's what you'd want to use.
Well, they make up for it with no helmet.
I'll just be the Game of Thrones lore guy here.
I believe it's just a tower that they're defending here.
And they don't want anyone to get into the tower
because there's something in the tower that's a secret.
But I suppose that doesn't mean necessarily
that they shouldn't be in the tower
defending it from these guys,
because either way, they want to kill them.
Well, they don't have, yeah,
they don't have siege like engines.
They'd have to try and build a battering ram
to get down the, knock down the door.
Because it's funny, right?
And the medical period,
there were things called tower houses,
which were basically just towers, right?
But they were made out of stone.
They had no large windows that you could crawl through.
And so they were still really well fortified.
And they were like in a lot of situations
they were used to prevent bandits from stealing the food
and the community would stockpile their resources
in this tower house.
And then there are other cases where a ward had it
and that was this kind of personal residence.
But like, so the only option you have then
is to knock down the door.
But then that means whoever's trying to get through the door,
you can fight them one at a time, they're bottlenecked.
And so even if this tower doesn't have crenellations
to shoot it from and it doesn't have an outer wall,
just having a fortified tower
is still a massive tactical advantage,
but they're not using it all here, so.
And so the reputation of him being the best swordsman,
a lot of people are upset because in the book, I believe,
I can't confirm this, he has one sword
and he's very good with it.
In the show, to be flashy, they gave him two.
And he dual wields at the same time.
What is the commentary on that?
What's the viability of dual wielding exactly?
Dual wielding is actually significantly effective, right?
When you're fighting it someone one-on-one
and there are historical treatises
showing dual wielding techniques and stuff,
but it was more done as kind of novelty
because the thing is, if you take it to a battlefield,
the reason why you don't wanna dual wield
is because there are other weapons
that are more effective against armor, essentially.
And so you wanna use something two-handed heavy
like a pole axe or something like that.
Or, and that's if you're wearing armor and stuff,
if you're not wearing armor,
you're always gonna use your offhand to hold a shield.
The shield is your main important thing.
And so what would win, like what's more advantageous,
sword and shield against a sword and sword,
like dual wielding, that's actually
a fairly close fight right there.
It's hard to call one way or the other
because dual wielding in a one-on-one situation
and if you're fighting someone who only has a sword,
you're almost guaranteed to win
unless you're fighting a particularly skilled person
who can do it.
Because I've tried this just in casual sparring sessions,
fighting at someone, even with sword and shield,
with dual wielding, it's so easy to get them
to look at one weapon and just hit them
with the other one where they're open.
And so dual wielding is very effective in this situation
because they don't have bows and arrows,
they're not using archery against him.
It is a fairly good pick, okay?
The thing that would really put him in a situation
is if they just use arrow fire
because you can't block arrows with swords,
not in real life.
And so you'd say it is viable here then, would you?
It's viable.
In this specific situation, it is actually viable.
I've seen a lot of depictions of dual wielding
with a sword and a knife or a shorter weapon in one hand.
Yeah, absolutely, that was where it came.
Yeah, so when I was saying it was more rare and stuff,
I was really referring to two equal sized weapons
in each hand.
When dual wielding was actually far more common
was with rapier and dagger.
And the reason why you use a shorter weapon
in your offhand, oh, there it goes through the hammer.
Have you got, yeah, I was gonna say,
have you guys seen that clearly?
The paws.
It looks like he's wearing mail underneath it as well.
It looks like mail.
Oh God, yeah, you're right.
Under the coat of plates.
Let me take a look.
Let me see if I can get better.
Yeah, I can see the quality is better on YouTube.
So let me.
If you guys have got my stream up,
you'll be able to see the screenshot,
right there as well.
Because that's questionable,
especially with the chain armor.
That would never happen.
That's technically three layers of armor.
What, no, he's even, he's wearing a tunic underneath.
And so he's even got a measure of padding under the mail.
Then it looks like he's wearing a type of game of sorts.
Adding mail, gambeson and coat of plates.
And let's not forget flesh and bone potentially.
Like that sort of lightsaber.
And he did that with one hand.
One handed.
This guy is a beast right here.
In a spin, just for show.
Yeah, it's funny.
Spinning can be fun.
It can be, see what it's doing here.
No, you can use it as a type of intimidation.
But the problem with spinning is that
there's always this position where your sword
is not guarding yourself when you're returning it
to where you spun it from.
See, that's a good shot.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Yeah, avoiding the armor.
See, that's great.
And so yeah, when you're spinning,
see what it's doing here.
If you just see right where you paused it, he's open.
This is why spinning is bad
because the spinning puts yourself in a situation
where you will be open.
And someone just ran in with a big thrust.
It's like dribbling a basketball.
Yeah, extended thrust, they would get him.
And so guard positions exist for a reason.
It's to protect yourself from the sword
in between you and your opponent.
He can't know the guy to his right here.
He can't know that this guy can't thrust immediately.
Exactly, he's not even looking at him.
And so if that guy just did a really heavy lunge
into his armpit on the side
and try and get right in the side into his lung
and then maybe the heart,
that could have been game over.
And yeah, if he's playing this in third person,
he might have a shot at least because he didn't know.
But I don't think that's how it works.
He needs to start a finishing move
so that all the other guys wait for him to get done
before they attack again.
Okay, see, what's interesting, what he's doing here, right?
He's standing still.
I've sparred against more like where it's uneven,
where it's like four against one.
And what you end up doing
is you're moving all the time
because the guys are trying to,
see the guys that were facing his back?
That is an open invitation.
They should just rush him on his back
and he's standing still.
See, what he would be doing is he should be moving
to his left and try and put everyone in front of him.
On one side, yeah.
You don't want to let anyone get behind you like that.
Because his legs look like a really vulnerable spot
right now.
Right there.
Imagine getting behind the knees,
just slicing those tendons.
Yep, down you go.
Yep.
More spinning.
More spinning.
More spinning.
So this is actually what, it looks good.
It's not realistic.
It looks good, yeah.
It looks great.
And so I'm not going to criticize it
because they do want fights to look just awesome.
And they do that, so that's cool.
It helps that this is all one shot.
Because if you start zooming in and cutting quickly,
we can't tell what's going on.
But then the problem becomes that choreographers
have a much rougher time to teach all of these guys
how to make a convincing sword fight
that they've never done in their lives potentially.
And all for one two-minute scene
in an episode of a TV show that's been running for years.
You know, it's just, it's probably not worth the payoff.
So they just try and make it look flashy.
All the time filters here.
Yeah, he's going all on one side at least.
So he's following some of your advice there.
Yes, exactly.
He moved to one side, so they weren't at his back.
Good to see.
Double strike in the neck.
Shot, yeah.
More spinning.
More spinning.
You've got to get them style points up.
Yeah.
And yeah, it's very tempting to just,
I wish I could let this run, but I mean.
So what the other guys are doing is,
the sword just cuts straight through the shield
and just turn it, just cut it right in half.
Yeah, sword is no better than armor.
They're just flailing.
There is no form.
There's no guard position.
They're just swinging wildly.
And of course, you see people do this
when they don't know anything about real sword fighting.
And of course, the actors don't.
And so that's exactly what they just default to.
One of the things that you want to do
is when you're with sword fighting,
is you have a proper stance, that's a guard position,
and your strike should lead into another guard position
or another attack from a good position.
And so when you see actual sword fighting,
it's so for precise and specific, it looks great.
But this, they're just flailing their arms around
with a weapon in it, basically.
It's funny.
Don't pick that shield up.
Oh, so that has got to be a great advantage of dual swords.
Because you can only block one of them.
Doing that with one, yeah, but see,
doing that with one sword would have done the job.
And technically both swords
are in the same attacking position.
And so when you actually,
if you're wanting to do like a double attack,
you want to put the weapons far enough apart
from one another, so you wouldn't be able,
the opponent couldn't block both of one weapon.
It looks cool, don't get me wrong.
Oh yeah, I guess what I was trying to highlight
was more just, he's in a position
where he can only block one,
so he's free to do whatever he wants with the other.
He just sort of just does a move
that he probably could have done
with one sword, you're right, yeah.
Either way, that is supposed to be the benefit
of dual swords is that you freeze one
while you use the other to block the enemy sword, I suppose.
And.
Oh, is he wearing armor though, that guy?
This one, yeah, that's Starka.
This one, and it's not through a gap,
or at least it doesn't look like it's through a gap.
They really like doing the PS right through, don't they?
But it's like, we've seen scenes
where they don't do it either.
Maybe, again, they probably think
only metal armor really protects, and yeah.
But that sword is clearly the same.
The fact that he couldn't even
get a really good charge and strike
sort of power behind it, this was he blocked one
and just straight up just stabbed him straight through.
And if these other guys, say someone like this
with this skill level really existed,
and he's fighting and is holding him at bay, right?
And these guys can already see
they're starting to get outmatched.
You know what would have been just a really good move
on their behalf, is one of those guys behind
drop their weapons, rush him, and just grab him.
Just hold him still.
And even if they get run through like this guy,
if that guy just got stabbed,
was able to wrap his arms around him and just hold him
long enough for someone to chop off his head,
game over, all right, there.
So that, oh yeah.
See how poorly made that press played is?
Like, that is fantasy trash.
It's not even fitting him properly.
Well, look at the amount of time I was about to say.
A lot of him is exposed.
Yeah, like the opening for the arm
is looping down really low.
It's the sides of the breastplate are like clashing
with each other, overlapping quite a lot.
There's a big gap arm in between the neck
and the edge where the arm is.
It's too low on the gap between the breastplate
and the fold, and it's too flat on the front as well.
So the armor he's wearing is trash.
Tell me about this grip.
Oh, the reverse grip.
Oh, yes.
That's a thing, right?
No.
No.
But with the Katana, it's a plus 10 damage
if you hold it reverse grip.
You have less articulation and it's harder to engage
your muscles to be heavy strikes in reverse grip.
And so it's bad, don't do it.
What about a Ned Stark's stance here
where he's got his arms the way they are?
Is that anything or is that just casual?
So it looks kind of weird to me.
No, that's not a stance at all.
Like it's close to a low guard, which is like the full.
And so if you like, hang on, actually,
I can get the full and another guard mixed up sometimes.
But if you hold it low, point it towards your opponent.
So basically if he was holding that sword like that,
but moved it to his other hand in front of him,
that is a kind of guard position,
but he's holding it on his side towards his back
and the sword's not really doing anything here.
And it's basically presenting his leg and arm to be cut.
It's like free shot right there.
Because I'm curious what he's setting up for here,
like how many things he's accounting for.
And I think he just goes first thrust immediately.
I can't remember.
I know.
That's not at all.
That's a wide swing.
That swing was so telegraphed.
He led into his shoulder and arm,
and it's just telling your opponent
what you're doing beforehand.
And it's almost like you'd let that hit your breastplate
because he was going right for his breastplate,
so you just let it hit you and stab him.
Exactly.
What are you gonna do?
He's not even aiming for it.
It's not particularly powerful either.
It was just sort of, and this is the problem, right?
When you really, it's rare for a lot of media
to survive this level of scrutiny,
but hell, it would be great if they did.
Gosh, yeah.
Sword fights that actually have historical elements in,
they just look amazing.
I actually want to show you guys.
You're missing the duelist.
See, that I know is one that has
much more historical sword fights in,
but I actually haven't watched it,
which is shame on me actually.
I've only seen some of the clips on YouTube,
and the fights are very tense.
Yeah, the duelist is actually a very well-known movie
for having realistic sword fights in.
Yeah, so some wide, heavy swings.
He's aiming for the swords here.
See, if you had a look at those strikes, right,
even if the swords didn't connect,
they would have missed,
because they're not aiming for their opponent.
They're aiming for the opponent as well.
And on the part of Arthur Dayne,
it seems to me that he's just blocking Ned's sword
and not taking advantage of the fact that he has two.
Yeah, yeah.
Like he's using one to block and not fighting back with it.
But yeah, obviously he ends up losing this fight,
technically speaking, which was inevitable, I guess,
from a swordsman that's better than him
and has the two-sword advantage here,
which you would define that as an advantage, right?
Oh yeah, yeah, huge advantage.
There was a lot of points where the swords are connecting.
See how he just blocked both low?
He didn't need to do that.
He could have blocked it with one sword
and thrust with the other,
and Ned would be dead instantly right there.
And so, yeah.
Almost there.
I would let it run.
It's just, copyright's gonna hit us on the line.
Yeah, I know.
Oh, Arma works that time.
We actually used his-
Oh, use the-
That was his bomb brace, right?
He gauntlet, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, it's a metal brace.
It's not really a gauntlet
because it doesn't have a handguard, so yeah, you're right.
But yeah, he blocked it.
Okay.
I was about to say, that's actually quite fascinating
that they actually put that in.
Completely forgot.
Arma work or not, movie.
Because that was, that would be a tactic, right?
To even push a sword technically toward them
with your vambrace.
Oh, just knowing that your armor can deflect
is absolutely, if you've got a fully armored arm,
you can block something with your forearm
like it's a shield.
Definitely.
And sword's good.
But then backstab through the throat.
And I like this part.
Fighting multiple people,
that's what everyone else is trying to do.
Yeah, interestingly, I think that was the first one
he downed in this fight.
Yes, it was, the hit and the gut, yeah.
Not very honorable though.
Well, people just understand the concept of my plea honor.
You better make sure they're dead.
Yeah, like when a knight was trying to fight another knight,
the only times when something like real fair play
where you wouldn't just hit them in the back
or when they're open to stuff
is maybe a tournament situation
where there's a lot of eyes on you.
But when it's warfare and battlefield,
Yeah, life's on the line.
Yeah, you win.
I think that was a neck shot.
Let's just hope it was.
Yeah, hit for the throat.
Yeah, that one is, that is that fight.
You said you'd like to show one, is it, or?
Yeah, I'm trying to look it up.
It might take me a little bit to find it.
But it's this group that do like cinematic
movie style fight scenes,
but with historical techniques employed,
and it just looks amazing.
It's phenomenal.
So we can keep talking about some stuff
while I'm looking for it.
Yeah, have you seen Old Boy,
the long shot sort of fight during that?
No.
On the old one, in the hallway?
Yeah.
Oh, crazy.
This is the thing, like I was, we could check down on it,
but I mean, it's, it's so difficult to maintain
such an amazing sort of one shot
while having choreography be perfect.
And it's like, it's doubtful that it would manage
to hold up every kind of scrutiny,
but I'm sure it does pretty well.
And then there's like the most classic and epic fights.
I imagine the people would be interested
in staying on Game of Thrones,
or the people, what do you want, chat?
What sort of fight would you like us to check out?
Cause I'm willing to do anything from Game of Thrones.
Or we could do stuff like,
I'm assuming you would have looked at the Hector
and Achilles fight from Troy at some point.
Oh yeah, that one's actually,
that's a beautiful fight scene.
Just like just visually and cinematically,
how well put together.
In terms of like technique,
you can always scrutinize and find things that,
you know, aren't really realistic.
But just if I was to say, you know,
give my opinion on is the,
does the fight do what it needs to do in the movie?
Absolutely.
That's one of the greater fight scenes in cinemas.
Like history in my mind.
Not to say it's perfect, but yeah, it's pretty darn good.
Got a lot of requests for old boy.
A couple of people saying Troy.
I mean, I'm kind of tempted with Troy,
cause I just love the Troy fight scene.
It's so good.
But I'd love to hear about how it's inaccurate.
Like I don't mind.
I'm gonna think of some others that might come to mind.
I mean, yeah, well,
maybe we can get through it a little faster.
Oh, I found it.
Oh yeah.
Throw your thing on first if you'd like.
This is-
Are we thinking about good ones or bad ones?
Well, if you want to see like the way that every single,
you know, movie sword fight,
like how it should be choreographed.
This is it.
So I'll just leave it there.
So it's a TLJ throne room, please.
So I've just linked that in Discord.
Are you still in the wash together?
Cause we can probably pull it up on there.
Give that a go.
We will need to pause it at points and stuff
because they did a lot.
They put all in a lot of effort to make this.
And it just is phenomenal.
I might, I probably have to do it for copyright anyway.
Oh, I know about this one.
Yeah.
Good Lord, that's a long sword.
And I didn't actually mean by classification.
I just meant that is a long sword.
But probably enough, it is also a long sword as well.
Oh, well, excellent.
I'm learning a lot.
You know, that's exactly why they were called those.
You know, that's genius.
So what's any context we should be aware of for this?
Or is it sort of just a fight?
Well, that guy, like,
he's wearing kind of classic lanchenect pants,
very showy.
And so this is already very historically accurate,
simply not medieval period by the clothing.
It's like a very early Renaissance, probably 16th century.
16th century?
Yeah.
But check out just how epic.
So every strike that he starts with,
generally ends in another guard position
for him to move in again now.
Like, these are guys who know what they're doing, right?
So just watch this.
Ah!
So testing in the bind, aiming for each other.
And so there were strikes against the weapon
to knock it aside,
and then moving in for a strike against the opponent,
presenting the sword on the correct line against the eye.
And it's also fast paced and everything.
Yeah, I like to think that this is their attempt at being like,
it can be cool and accurate, guys.
Yeah, exactly.
And see this guy on the right, that's a wrath.
That's called wrath.
It's a proper historical guard position right there.
And so, oh, and so this guy is obviously on the left side.
Now he's adopting a guard position.
So he was in a recovery point there.
And so I went into kind of a long point.
Ah!
See how those strikes were held from his hands high,
and the strikes were moving around.
See, it's so good, right?
Because when you start to learn swordsmanship,
historical swordsmanship,
you learn that it's actually quite easy
to defend into your legs.
You just move them back.
And so a lot of your strikes end up being high,
and you hold higher guards,
and you strike from in a more raised position.
And if you're gonna strike for the lower,
it's rarely for like the knees or the legs.
It's for the thighs and maybe the sides of the torso
is as low as you generally go
in trying to strike someone on the lower end with a sword.
Because if you go any lower,
you can't hold a guard position striking so low
when you leave your upper body vulnerable in your head.
And so it's much better to strike from a higher position
where you can protect your head, your torso,
and your legs are protected
because you can lean forward and just kick your legs back.
And so that's what we saw right here.
It's just beautiful.
I see a lot of sort of blocks,
like draw back strike,
like a lot of sliding the sword around in different ways.
You don't really see that in movies much at all.
Yeah, see winding and binding,
feeling out the opponent's blade.
When your blade touches the other opponent,
you can feel the pressure that they're applying to it,
which can actually inform you
in how they're gonna strike from it.
And so then that could alter what you're doing.
And so there's actually engagements
where the blades are just touching
and the opponent's just kind of moving
and feeling around the position that then thrust
and then it might move aside.
And the sword actually might stay connected
for a good few seconds while they're just doing this.
And it still looks awesome when they do it.
See, employing grappling as well.
You could, if these guys would be able to do it
in one take, this whole fight,
I wonder if it would just be too difficult
to sort of nail that
because they don't actually wanna kill each other,
imagine, is it easy to tell
that these are sort of sparring swords
or are these actually?
Well, you could see that they were blunt,
like especially on the close up and stuff.
And on the, see that you can just see
that the tips are rounded.
That's just kind of of necessity.
And they even do that in the actual films as well.
When you look really close, you can see they're blunt.
And so you say, all right, you know,
we could kind of ignore that
just because of practical reasons.
You don't really wanna do it with sharp ones.
I wonder if they actually-
Oh, absolutely.
That was winding and binding.
That was feeling out.
Oh, and it's half sorting now as well.
See, there's so much historical technique in this.
This is what you would see essentially the top nights,
the top of this skill or craft doing stuff like this.
Well, the thing is-
Sword fighters.
Well, no, see, this is that
there is a huge unrealistic element to this.
And it's how long the fight is going
and how precise the engagements are.
So they've combined the Hollywood idea of a fight
where it's drawn out with historical techniques.
And that's what I wish Hollywood would do
because it can look brilliant.
But in reality, sword fights don't go this long.
Like in most situations,
it'll end after the first three to four moves
and then a hit will land.
And in some instances, in the first move,
the first tempo, a strike will land.
That's how quick real sword fights are.
And so-
Like a lot of them, it'll be like,
okay, three, two, one, go, strikes, strike, hit.
I'm just done.
It's just like, oh, there we go.
But obviously in a high budget fantasy movie,
that's gonna be like, oh,
I can't have it like that.
Exactly.
And so yeah, they've taken that idea
of the Hollywood drawn out,
two people who are so equal in skill
that they just can't land each other.
But the other thing is
that they've been deflecting and attacking
and deflecting so quickly in response to each other.
See what they're doing here.
Oh, that was great.
This is almost, it looks great.
And they did it because it's choreographed.
In reality, to deflect and strike
and deflect in such quick succession
over a long period of like that, like this,
actually requires superhuman reflexes
to do it in real life.
And I've never seen it done, period,
where it's like that.
But with movies,
you wanna see kind of like a sword fight
done with just such mastery and skill
that you see people do things that are technically impossible,
but we can suspend that, you know, just exactly.
Just sitting down and watching it.
Yeah, exactly.
And I mean, if someone did have superhuman reflexes
and new historical techniques,
it could very well look like this.
And this is kind of what we want with entertainment.
We want something that just looks phenomenal
and they can, you know, practice it.
Yeah.
And see, it didn't go through his thick clothing.
Yeah.
He got a strike on the chest, didn't get through.
It's very realistic.
We got hand-to-hand now, huh?
Oh yeah, people don't understand that.
Medieval period had hand-to-hand martial arts.
And this would be, they would train you up for this
as a sort of safety net sort of thing, I imagine.
Well, also like one of the ways that you fight armor
is through grappling and trips and throws
to knock the opponent off their feet
because you want to pin them.
And so like, there's like, you know,
fist-type martial arts with strikes and stuff,
but if you're fighting someone in armor,
punching and kicking does spit.
And so the type of unarmed martial arts
that were developed for fighting someone
who had decent amount of padding,
decent amount of armor and stuff,
are grapples, throws, locks and things,
just like what we saw here.
Yeah, there you go, return to your swords.
You always feel much safer having a sword, I imagine.
That's exactly it, grab the sword and you can.
Oh, you got both, eh?
Oh, is he gonna do the honorable thing
and provide his opponent his sword?
He's gonna do the honorable thing.
How much of that is real?
The idea of like a chivalry representing
the honorable knight's code, that sort of idea.
It always depended.
Chivalry is a very sophisticated thing.
And the mistake is to think that it was a code
that everyone agreed with.
A chivalry was absolutely huge, right?
And people would reference it and talk about it.
It comes up in medieval literature all the time.
But what you will find is that there is no uniform consensus
as to what it is.
The most fundamental definition of chivalry
is whatever someone believed made a good knight,
the qualities and actions that made a good knight.
And if someone felt their complete obedience
and showing no mercy meant making good knight,
well, that was chivalrous, just slaughtering wantonly.
But if someone else believed showing mercy and restraint
were good qualities that they wanted their knights,
well, that would be chivalrous to them.
And they would call that chivalry as well.
So there are actual definitions of chivalry
that outright contradict one another completely.
But there are examples of it all existing.
What we see here, there's examples of stuff like this
existing as well.
And there's examples of the opposite.
A wrath position and then, oh, see that.
That is a good example of what a single longsword fight
can often be, a single engagement
with a single tempo repost.
And what he did, it was a block and an attack in one move.
And those are just gorgeous.
That's like the peak swordsmanship that you want to achieve
when you're learning how to fight with a sword
is a single tempo repost.
You can pull them off.
That's just, they're the best.
Half sword into the leg.
These are just great counters at this point.
Winding and binding disarm.
Look at that cod piece.
Yeah, boy.
And do they make a couple of those?
Or is that sort of like a one-off video?
Sorry, they have a YouTube channel.
And they have a couple of different fights
that they've choreographed together.
This is, I reckon, their best by far.
It just looks beautiful.
Can you imagine if they had that quality in Game of Thrones?
Right?
It's just next level stuff.
I guess I'll post, there's a link in the chat
to the channel.
I'll put that in the description as well
if anybody's interested in checking that out.
What's the channel name?
It's like, Adore.
Adore, Adore, Adore, Adore, Adore, Adore, Adore, Adore.
I can't pronounce this.
I'm gonna put the channel,
it comes from.
That's the easiest layman way of me explaining it.
Yeah, you can catch that in the description as well
if you wanted to.
Would you be up for checking out the Troi one now?
Because I'm gonna, I'm gonna see how it holds up.
Always, always.
As well as this is,
we're going even further back in time now, right?
Because this is,
technology-wise, we'll be degrading again,
but still remaining just as interesting.
Yeah, they've both got the same outfit here, right?
It's the, they got spear and shield with sword on backup.
I think it's how, how this works.
Yeah, and so Greek combat is interesting.
There's far less known about it,
but there is evidence that there were,
that there was, sorry,
that there were sophisticated martial arts,
which makes sense.
I mean, whenever you have anyone fighting with weapons,
right, they don't wanna die.
So they're gonna try and figure out how to do it better
than what they could.
And so of course martial arts are gonna be present
whenever fighting and combat is.
And so the evidence we have for Greek martial arts
is actually a certain guard positions
that we can deduce from vases and stuff,
you know, hoplites and things.
But as to the specifics,
oh gee, no one really knows.
That's what we can do, isn't it?
So the question that,
yeah, the question that I would have here is like,
one-on-one spear and shield.
See, hoplites, they were all structured
around phalanx formations, you know?
And so taking out, taken out of that situation,
would they choose that?
We don't know.
Now spear is a great weapon
and a shield is a great weapon.
So the question is, and this is kind of my contention,
is that it is really hard to manipulate a spear
in one hand, okay?
You're really restricted to just kind of thrusting and stuff.
And so the level of articulation
and kind of sophistication that they show
in the choreography here is actually unrealistic.
The spear is actually too cumbersome and awkward
to use the way that you see these guys start to use them,
like what does Brad Pitt do?
He like puts it behind his neck at one point
and will do these weird kind of complex thrusts.
Yeah, but it looks great.
It looks awesome, it really does,
but you know, you would never do it in real life.
What kind of-
Okay, you question the lady Achilles.
Like with my layman understanding,
I would be like, oh, so Brad Pitt's wearing leather,
I'm guessing, what would you call what he's wearing?
I don't like, it looks like a bronze.
Yeah.
It just doesn't look that protective,
but again, the whole deal is that he's super amazing,
so he doesn't necessarily need it.
Hector on the other hand seems to have
more of a metal thing going on.
Yeah, it's like this weird,
it's like these weird stubs sections
all plastered onto the surface.
Like a plate prototype thing?
Yeah.
And they both took off their helmets
to prove who they are or so,
but I'm just like,
would they just not put them back on at that point?
Yeah.
Helmets are really useful, guys.
You don't like them helmets.
Rags has learned this from Ward Howe.
Oh yeah, helmet.
Helmet helmet.
And yeah, the thing with movies
that you'll really notice once you sort of accept it
is a lot of films like to get helmets off characters
as quickly as they can,
just to be like, look at them faces.
And their emotions and the engagement and stuff.
That opening there, the sidestep,
sidestep trying to get like the.
Yeah, you know, like Brad Achilles here,
he has a very distinct style
that's kind of given him to be reflective
of someone who has trained to develop this system
that's personal to him, that's really effective.
And I think it just works really well
for the visual kind of element of the fight scene.
As to how effective kind of the dodging to either side,
not really sure.
You wouldn't really watch their feet.
You watch their weapon and where the weapon goes.
There was a side sweeping strike with the spear.
Wouldn't be really effective,
but still if you connected, it would be a bit of a knock.
Because it doesn't seem like you can get
a lot of power behind it
when you're trying to do a sweep with one-handed spear.
No, not with one-handed.
And in actual fact, this was a one-on-one duel.
There's a higher chance that they might have chosen
to not use the shields at all
to get more use out of their spear.
See what, again, what Achilles did right there,
like you can't do in real life.
Because it can't be that efficient because...
No, yeah, like there's not a lot of power behind it.
And the spears look quite right.
Yeah, the spear would go up, surely.
And the spears they're using look quite light.
If they have a like, in reality,
if you want a spear to have any amount of impact
with a bludgeoning attack like a quarterstaff,
you'd want it to have a bit more heft like a quarterstaff.
These ones look fairly light.
But they might've given them light ones
because they're heroic, strong people.
Well, I guess that really uses it for one strike.
And then he instantly moves to something else.
You could argue he's doing it to distract Hector a little bit,
at least to be like, look what I'm doing.
You're like, whoa.
My spear happens to be here.
I'll give one pose and then move to something else.
He just broke his spear.
That's surely impossible.
No, it's not gonna happen.
Not gonna happen.
It would bounce at best.
He's got a bladed shield.
A bladed shield.
Yeah, that spear is made of paper if that's happening, right?
Yeah, exactly.
Oh, he's doing it again, but this time,
nope, he's giving up on it.
Yeah, and then they.
See, well, it's funny.
You could snap a spear like that with the leverage
if it was that thin,
but they would never be really that thin or that weak.
If you stood on that spear to break it there.
They would be out there as Xiphos's.
Xiphos, what's the plural for Xiphos?
Xiphys.
Xiphai.
Xiphys?
Xiphai.
It could be Xiphai, actually.
Xiphai.
Great.
These things as well.
I love the sound design on this bit.
They're all so very, it's just so like.
Xing xing xing xing xing.
It's just like, yeah.
I love their movies.
Xing xing xing xing.
Brass swords are a complex thing
to understand properly in context.
They're invulnerable here.
See how they're bashing against each other?
They're not getting any dents or chips
or anything like that.
Brass dents very easily.
But this is the thing.
Bronze, sorry.
Yeah, bronze.
Getting those mixed up.
But brass probably does too, to be fair.
Yeah, well, of course.
But, sorry, yes, it should be bronze.
Thank you.
The thing is, people misunderstand bronze
is the fact that it actually can have a pretty hard edge
if it's work hardened
and can be about as strong as iron just by itself.
But it's not invulnerable either.
And it does dent far easier than steel by far.
And so, like, it's kind of balanced.
What they're showing here,
they're showing that they're completely indestructible.
Especially this flat, you know,
thrust that Achilles is doing to the shield,
that would roll the tip.
Yeah, I could, yeah.
With a bronze one.
But it's a cool stance.
But, all right, I like that the bronze,
you know, Xiphos he has there.
It's kind of a Xiphos.
It's a more fancy design.
It had a central ridge.
It looked great.
So, let's talk about this,
holding the shield behind you technique.
Yeah.
Yeah, stylish, but at this point, why?
The back of his head is itchy, okay?
Like a distract in the fire.
He keeps it up there for a while.
Wow, I didn't realize that.
What are you doing, Brad?
Yeah, you're thinking a shit about what that shield's for.
It's a sunshine.
He's trying to keep the sun off of him.
Yeah, I get it.
This is an umbrella stance.
Yeah, it really was up there for no reason.
A demoralizing tactic is like,
I can take you on without my shield at all.
Look, I'll hold the shield behind the back of my head
and I'll still take you on.
I will fight in the shade.
We'll fight in the shade.
If I was Hector and just getting beaten
with a guy holding his shield behind him,
I'd be feeling a bit...
Yeah, he like, pierced, attempted to pierce the shield.
Like, that's only gonna damage his sword.
Absolutely, that worked out.
What is what he's holding a classified as?
Is that a sword?
Yeah, yeah, so they're a classic Greek style sword.
Achilles' one, again, is a bit different,
more fantasy kind of design,
but technically, they're a Xiphos by my period.
Very cool name for a sword.
Down to nine.
This is him.
Thing is, though, people think that all,
you know, Bronze Age weapons were that long.
There were ones that were way longer.
We're talking like the length of an arming sword,
like a knight one-handed sword.
There were bronze weapons that big.
And so, I would like to see a movie showing, you know,
an actual bronze sword with a bit of weight and size to them
instead of all these short little ones.
Yeah, would you expect a fight with these sort of attributes,
so these shields, these swords, this armor,
how long do you reckon this would go for the gifts?
That's a good question.
Shields can really extend the length of a jewel
because you've got so much protection
and it can be really hard to kind of break through it.
I wouldn't go this long.
I mean, like, as soon as an opening is there, bang.
It can be game over very quickly.
There you go.
Hector got a hit in.
Close, it's just scraped his armor.
Yep.
Now, would that have chopped through the armor
if it connected more?
In reality, it wouldn't, but in the movie context,
they probably would think it would.
Interestingly, even according to the movie,
it doesn't look like it even actually managed to split.
It's barely a scratch, just an aesthetic scrape.
Well, that would be good
if they're showing the armor doing something.
I appreciate that.
So this is interesting.
Hector goes for what I assume was a sort of thrust.
He gets his arm caught.
You can't really see what's happening exactly,
but his arm is caught, for sure.
And then Achilles lifts it up.
Yeah, he's got it in between his arm and his side
and it's kind of locked away.
Just another thing, these shields that they're holding
are way too light for the period,
like hoplons or the aspis,
which is the type of shield that is used
by the phalanx formations, the hoplites.
They are huge, thick things.
They are big.
They're so big that they were made with such a lip
that you could rest them on your shoulder almost.
And they generally weren't centigrip,
like what we're seeing here either.
The center portion looked over the joint in your elbow
and then you would have something
that you held onto the edge and they were usually like us.
They were lined with a rope kind of formation
on the edges that you held with your hand.
And so just the inaccuracies in the shield,
just pointing out.
Yeah, I was gonna say, because these shields,
look at them, thick, heavy, surely.
It's like, it's gonna be a pain to carry these around,
especially blocking hits with them.
And then from this age, yeah, you just fully expect
this would be a, it would be helpful,
but it would tie you up quickly, surely.
Well, the way that their weight and hand configuration
makes them far more like the Viking style shields
of the very early medieval period
and the migration period and stuff.
They're called the Skjoldr.
And so, yeah, they're more Viking-like
than Greek-like these shields in my opinion,
except for their designs on the front.
Yeah, and there was a rock there,
unfortunately for Hector.
Ah, downfall.
Yeah, and I think it's supposed to be
sort of the turning point.
I always found, even when I was,
because I saw this when I was young,
obviously 2004, I mean, I was 11 when this came out.
Even I was like, this is a rock, really?
He couldn't have just lost in general.
Why'd it have to be a rock?
Yeah, it looks like he sort of abandoned
the shield here as well.
Yeah, but why?
I'm not sure why, actually.
And then Achilles just throws his shield away as well.
Oh, he goes, he's changing up his secondary item.
He's going for the broken spear.
And if it is, I think Achilles does
the same thing as well.
Oof.
The-
I'm stuck with the shield.
Well, what is the attire on the lower end of these two?
What would you call that?
What, the graves or?
Uh, the dress.
The skirt.
What would you call it?
Oh.
I'm assuming there's a better name than skirt.
It doesn't look like the armor here.
Yeah, like, you don't technically identify it
as part of the upper bit of armor,
but I actually don't know the name of it.
Maybe someone in chat.
People in chat are saying skirt.
They might actually be considered skirts then.
Yeah, probably light armor on them.
I doubt that it was going to stop much.
We're at the point of them getting pretty tired as well.
It's only, I think it was only like a two minute fight.
So it's not too bad in terms of like realism, I suppose,
but it's probably gone on a lot longer than it probably would.
Yeah. Oh yeah, by far.
But again, and I'm no problem with that,
because, you know, a movie that you want to be really engaging
and, you know, epic, you do want larger fights and stuff.
Yeah.
You got man dress and leg curtains.
That could be it, right?
Yeah, sure.
Armored kilt.
Yeah, so this is like wide, wild swinging.
It's just gone.
Yeah, this is just wild.
You know, no form.
Just try to hit telegraphing every strike.
Close to. Oh, yeah, I was going to say this is close to where he dies, I guess.
Oh, yeah, there you go.
So that was odd.
The way Achilles spins around
almost twice to get the the hits in there, if I just go back.
Odd choices.
I always felt like when you just got him on the first one.
So if he missed that or a faint, maybe.
But it like he does leave his back open when he spins around. Yeah.
Spinning is a complicated thing, even in historical things,
because there are cases where spinning attacks were used.
Even whole systems developed around spinning, like with great swords,
where you just keep spinning the sword around to keep your opponent at bay.
But then there are really bad types of spins where you leave your back open.
So right through the armor.
Yeah, I was going to say, would that broken spear be able to do that?
Nah, could it depend on possibly what it is that this armor is?
What if it's made of?
I mean, if it's made of if it's a proms, if it's a bronze head,
if it's bronze head against bronze armor, I don't really see it piercing it now.
If it was lighter armor, like cloth or even some type of leather is a better chance
that it could get through, but not like this.
So yeah, the more you look at it, the more you realize armor is worthless in movies
and TV shows, isn't it?
It really is.
Look at this right through the center as well.
Yeah, look like there was a sort of, I don't know what you call it,
but like a bump of like more solid piece of armor as well, like especially solid.
Could you imagine if they had this movie where like Achilles,
he goes into this big lunge and he just hits and doesn't go through.
It's like, oh, yeah, it just pushes Hector over.
Let me try that again, let me try that again.
It's not going through.
Look, I'll just I'll just cut your throat.
Stay still. Thanks.
Yeah, would it?
So the best we could probably imagine is a dent, right?
It would it would dent the armor at most.
Yeah, it's an R shape hole.
Yeah, at most.
R shape hole.
Piecing it is rare for something like this, I'd imagine.
And well, the hole looks like.
Almost impossible, like and with the bra, like, sorry, bronze.
It'll be impossible here.
Well, that's, you know, one of the typically looked at as better fight.
What do you think of as a hole?
I mean, it looked great, right?
Like it's unrealistic in the style of fighting that they're using
and that the weapons are in reality too cumbersome to use as spears like they do.
And it becomes a bit wild swings and stuff towards the end
with the swords and everything.
But the thing is, people did fight without form.
Historically, who didn't who just gave everything up
and just tried to hit as hard as they could.
So it's not necessarily unrealistic.
But overall, it's a great fight scene.
It just looks cool.
Yeah, I was going to say, there were some interesting things in it.
I love the delivery, the whole thing.
And so a lot of people have been requesting.
This is typically looked at as one of the best Game of Thrones fights in season one.
This is and it's funnily enough, oh, yeah, it's quite a casual fight.
Like it comes out of nowhere almost.
So I'm like, oh, this is a fight we're having now.
But the quality is not fantastic.
I'll see if I can find a slightly better one quick.
I think I'm going to be unlucky on that regard.
The the idea being that it's a sell sword with very limited armor against
what you can imagine is a full night of armor sort of set up with.
I think he has a kite shield as well.
And I know that you have a fondness for kite shields to the best love kite.
Well, let's see if hopefully this is clear enough regardless.
So I should probably draw it back, actually.
And so this is an interesting situation where you have someone who is completely
outmatched in terms of arms and weapons.
But what is what's you know, clearly good about this is that you can still win.
Like there's always if you're smarter, if you fight, you know,
in a more kind of defensive way and you're just more skillful,
you cannot there's always a chance that you can beat someone.
Yeah, there's a it has better weapons.
David versus Goliath sort of ideology here.
Like you it's a weak spot.
Go for it. You'll win eventually.
Because there's an element of tiring him out as well in this fight, not just weakening him.
Let's see if the guy with the shield, what I can't stand and see what he did there.
When someone strikes with the shield, right, they swing their shield completely out of the way.
So much to the point where the shield is behind them.
Yeah, don't do this.
You always forward with it and on the edge slash down in front of you.
Like I've got a big kite shield right now that done sparring with it.
And funnily enough, one of the best tactics you can do with it is you just hold the shield out
as far as you can in front of you, run forward, ram it into your opponent
and just stab over it from overhead or underneath on the side.
And it's so hard to be with defend against it.
And so it's not too complex to get the advantage out of a good sized kite shield.
But his swing, see, he was not even holding it forward.
He's just doing a lot of wild swings considering his his advantage of being a sort of solitary target.
Like he's like a walking tank almost and he's choosing to sort of rush and swing.
And this is supposed to be the best night in the veil, I believe.
Savard is something like that.
But if you could argue that he's doing it because he's trying to get it done quick,
like this guy's gotten knocked on a chance.
And I mean, Bronn is fighting in the right way defensively.
He is keeping and like because one of the great tactics that you actually don't see employed a lot in movies
and everything is tiring out your opponent, especially if they're wearing armor.
If you can just make them exhausted, their fighting capacity can be half.
Like I know this from real life, right?
My actual ability and how will I fight from when I'm fresh compared to when I'm exhausted?
Like I fight nearly at almost what?
Not even a third of my full ability.
So it's reduced by like over half when I'm exhausted.
And yeah, I think you can see that throughout this fight here.
He's he's doing so many big wide swings and missing.
And even hitting these pillars is going to cost him a lot of it
because it'll just be a shock back to his own hand, right?
And I'll damage your sword, too.
Yeah, that's true.
And threw some innocent civilian at him.
How could you?
You're not going to stab this guy.
Again, moving the shield out of the way, almost in each strike.
This is clearly someone who does who is never they do not know how to fight with a shield.
Because every strike he is swinging a shield away.
Still hasn't actually hit him yet as well.
Back or anything this whole time he's just been on the defensive.
Yep.
That's a viable good way to fight it.
Slash under the arm.
Yeah, got him right on the armpit.
The Tyrion's life is at stake.
So I think it's fair to be happy about it.
And see, I like how he raises.
Finish him, it's that easy.
Like helmets are so crucial, right?
But I think people would be surprised how restrictive the breathing can feel
when you're wearing a big one like that.
Though the eye slit is huge on that.
You can't even call it an eye slit.
It's more like an eye hole.
It's like it's an eye.
It's a window.
Eye window, yeah.
Eye window, eye hole.
Big swing miss.
But these ones are a little bit better because they're upward and downwards
to the shield's table front.
Check out which angle his shield is facing there.
Oh yeah, that was well, yeah.
Behind the leg.
And that's an opening on armour usually.
Yeah, and so at that point you've lost probably the ability to stand potentially.
Yep.
That point I'm like, all right.
Yeah, they would surrender.
The guy, he should know it's gone now.
But I mean, if he particularly wants to protect his
well, you chose to charge at him and I think, yeah, I think the fight's over now.
Even kick the shield away.
Not that the shield was particularly useful to this man.
I was tiring him out.
More of an endurance.
Don't keep holding on to it.
Sorry, that guy's armour has all these weird bumps on it and stuff.
Those are like solid hunks of metal heating.
It looks cool.
That's why.
You might want to tenderise meat with it.
Yeah, waiting for a sort of thumbs up, thumbs down moment.
But it doesn't matter if it's a fight to the death, so.
And yeah, to the dismay of all the characters here, because everyone wants him to lose.
But the shock is that the faster, nimble, careful fighter manages to prevail.
Yep, all right, through the opening.
And that went down far too.
Yeah.
You gotta love that.
Beautiful.
And the waterfall, the waterfall.
If you hit an artery, it can pour out pretty fast, right?
But probably not to that degree.
I haven't seen it in real life to be out of comment.
We need a doctor in here, guys.
I'm not actually sure.
Blood can really get really messy.
Especially when it's to the head, because everything is pumping towards there, so.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Doesn't she comment?
She says, like, use her fight without honour here.
Yeah.
And he says, yeah, I know, but he did.
He fought with honour and now he's dead.
The thing is though, right?
The only dishonourable thing really in that fight was maybe throwing
an innocent bystander in the way.
But in terms of the tactics, if that if that fight was real,
everyone would be saying, well, fought.
Oh, Johnny, go to there.
Yeah, like.
So it would work.
Yeah, got him right behind the knee.
Good, good shot.
Dirty.
I give up.
They're like, the way he was fighting wasn't really dirty or dishonourable.
It was tactical, reserved.
You're supposed to let him hit you with the sword.
Yeah.
So the style of fighting wasn't dishonourable.
They're throwing the innocent person away.
That was a bit cruel, but I mean, the thing is, it's not a very good
makeshift battlefield.
If you're going to shove random civilians in there, you know.
Hey, the referees part of the field, man.
So this is Barristan.
Selmy is one of the character favourites.
A lot of people have that were wasted for Game of Thrones.
Part of why I hate season five.
But the idea here is you've got one of the best knights in the Seven Kingdoms
without his armour against what are essentially like street thugs with knives in an alleyway.
So this will be interesting to see.
In reality, I'm trying to weigh up the odds.
Honestly, being outnumbered is so hard to fight against multiple opponents and stuff,
especially like this number.
And so if this was reality and someone's got balls, it's like, my goodness.
Oh, he's trying to save a friend.
He's going for this.
Yeah, the problem is obviously that after your first strike,
you're vulnerable basically to everyone else, right?
Yeah, exactly.
This is where you want a really big sword and do wide sweeping strikes
to threaten as many of the opponents as possible.
This is where the great sword comes into its own.
And why some of the techniques were focused around spinning attacks
where you're just throwing, spinning the sword 360 around you.
And no one is going to get near it because if you get near that.
You're not going to block it with your dagger.
No.
Because the great sword has so much more heft and, you know,
mass to it.
There's nowhere near heavy that people think.
If you held a great sword, you'd be surprised at how light it is.
But it still definitely has enough meat behind the strike to do some damage.
And yeah, so they added this pretty carefully to try and avoid it,
how it looks like he's surviving this.
But picking up a meat shield,
it's probably pretty clever in this scenario, I'd imagine.
Yeah. Yep.
Good on him.
Tactical.
It's taken out a few and they're being very accommodating
by skating to the side.
Two on the right.
They're just sort of allowing this to take place.
That was very, very nice of them.
Cool.
And you see four on his back there that sort of were just sort of waiting their turn,
which is always something that's very annoying in movies and TV shows where
they seem to be lining up and you're like, no, no, no, guys.
Yeah, exactly.
You're in play. Go.
I quite like that strike, though, where he just slits it up.
Wait, is this the Unsullied guy?
No, this is his name is Barristan.
Barristan.
I mean, the guy with the spear.
Oh, yeah, he was. Yeah, sorry.
Okay. That I recognized him.
Yeah, they're sort of getting little hits on him toward the end of this fight and it's.
Yeah. Finally, someone getting him from behind when he's open.
Yeah, this is the thing is death by a thousand cuts reduced to a degree.
But it's annoying to see because it's like, oh, yeah,
the guy with like the most fame and infamy killed by a bunch of random assholes with daggers.
You're like, cool.
Yeah. And I mean, if he was like super skilled, there was a way he could win,
not the way he was fighting.
Like he let people get behind him.
And that's what I was saying with the other fight where, you know, the super swordsman guy,
you always move around.
So you position as many like technically everyone, if you can, in front of you on one side.
And if they start to, you know, loop around and walk around,
you try and then counter that by your own movement.
It'd be more difficult with a confined space like this,
which is why I probably should have fought them at the door or something.
Let them approach him.
Yeah, try and bottleneck them.
Actually force them into a one view, like one on one at a time,
instead of the show allowing for that to happen naturally somehow.
Just walking into the middle of the group.
Yeah. And then this one, I'm really hoping this works.
I'm pretty sure it will, because it's done with,
apparently it was done with Bandicam.
But so there's this portion of season, I think it's five, it could be six actually,
where they open the fighting pits.
And the idea here is that anyone can sort of be submitted via being a slave
or to go themselves to prove a point, I guess.
And what we've got.
That necklace looks very uncomfortable.
Yeah, that looks like it would totally stab you, but hey, you know, style.
Um, so if we get like a wide shot here, we got Jorah,
who's obviously your your knight for this sort of thing.
Waiting for them to give us a shot.
Yeah, I was just trying to check out his armor there.
Is that supposed to be metal that blackens?
Kind of looks like it.
Yeah. Oh, so here's a good shot, right?
So we got Jorah is furthest right.
Then you've got, I think the guy with like an axe.
He's bravosi.
Oh, I don't have the same shot as you.
I'm seeing, I'm looking at, uh, oh, there we go.
Okay.
It sort of have holes in it.
Who's the guy with the buckler thingy in the middle.
Yeah, I see what you mean.
Uh, I guess we'll find out in better shots.
Is that a thing, Shad?
Not historically.
I'm not sure that's what it is.
I guess we'll find out.
But no, it, uh, it can't tell.
Well, we'll see.
Also, interestingly, I think his weapon.
Actually, oh, wait, I do know of a sword with holes in it.
The executioner sword.
Yeah.
At the tip, there are three holes in a triangle kind of, um, uh, arrangement and, uh, no one
really knows why they're there, but, but it's a common thing amongst these executioner swords.
Some believe it.
Like it's so that the sword when swung will make a certain sound.
And people say that could be for intimidation or,
sorry, it can't be used as a weapon because you can't sneak or get from people from behind.
Some others say that tussles were hung from these things.
Others to say that it couldn't be the tip couldn't be sharpened again.
So it wouldn't be turned into a weapon that you could use in an actual fight.
So we really don't know.
So it's kind of interesting.
Like, did you see the sword here?
Yeah, it's got, it's got holes down the middle.
Is that what we're looking at?
Yeah.
But it's also cut in the same way that an executioner sword was, you know,
like a, an end that was not pointed.
Interesting.
But then you would want that extra weight if all you can do is slash.
Yeah, I'm not sure what the practicality of the sword is.
You can get that weight back just by the thickness.
So it kind of depends.
And it's funny, you could get a weapon that has just as much cleaving capacity
and to put a point on it.
Look at some of the falchions, the cleaver style falchions.
They did exactly that.
It's like, why not have a pointy end?
Like check out, um, uh, uh, I need to get,
all right.
So check out these pictures of the falchions.
I'll just link it to you.
They're basically a huge cleaver in some of them.
And then they've just stuck on a big spiky point to the end,
just so they still get the, um, uh, the thrusting capacity.
So yeah, I was like, why not have it?
Exactly.
Like it's not going to add any more real, you know,
weight to the weapon.
That's going to be a bother.
You want to poke people with it.
Exactly.
So there's a link to, um, uh, the Elmsley typology.
Um, not sure if you'll be able to bring that up to the, to the chat or not, but
if you have a look at the one D or type, the type one D or type two falchions
and have a look at just like these big cleaver things with a spike on the end.
Yeah.
Spikes are good.
We like spikes.
Yeah.
I got to imagine a lot.
And I feel like that would throw off an opponent as well.
They'd be like, whoa, what is this creepy spike you've got?
Yeah.
That's, um, Shetty with a pointy bit.
Very rare to not have some form of a edge to the end.
Yeah.
I mean, the reach, they did exist.
Like have a look at the one type one B and type one C.
Those are examples, but more often than not, if you can have a point on it,
you'll chuck a point on it.
Why does the one C have that odd?
No one knows.
It's depicted in the Massajoski Bible.
It's this weird picture of this cleavy kind of falchion with this weird clip on the back edge.
And we have no idea.
It's just like, it could be that it never actually existed.
And the artist just was off his rocker when he was doing the painting,
but it's there and people have made reproductions of it.
So we, it's included for just, you know, acknowledgement.
Yeah.
And yeah, so just going back to the thing you got.
Standard Knight sort of outfit.
The next guy has got, is that a pole axe or something?
I really don't know my weapon.
It could be a bardiche, or bardiche, depending on how you like to pronounce it.
I can't really see it with, because it's paused at a different frame.
A help.
I don't know.
We'll probably go through it better once we get into the actual fights.
But then you've got a guy with...
That sword does have a lot of holes in it.
I can see it better now.
That's strange.
You got a guy with rapier as furthest left.
Guy with sword and weird holy sword.
Basically a whole, the point was it was just a big variety
and then they're all going to face off with each other.
But there's a couple of things wrong with this,
even from a layman's perspective with how this fight runs.
But it might be interesting just to look at how they sort of fight.
And I was, I'm definitely going to ask you about the benefits
of being sort of like a light swordsman with a rapier versus plate armor.
All righty.
Because that, there is some interesting elements to consider there.
Yeah.
So first, we can get it.
His breastplate is, see, it comes down too low.
It would be so hard for him to like twist his hips on either side.
You can even see that he is stiff in his torso
when he leans from one side to the other because of that breastplate.
It goes too far low before the joint and the fold.
Okay, yeah, that looks like a Baddish, Baddish, Baddish.
What is fighting there?
Yeah.
Then you got the other fights are going on at the same time.
So how much they show of them.
Oh, actually, I got a better look at the blade.
The blade is a more fancy kind of version,
but if you had to classify it, I'd call it a Baddish.
That in the ground, sorry, that it makes me cringe
because that's a great way to blunt your sword.
You never stab a sword into the ground.
You almost felt like watching it was like,
it feels like such a video game thing.
Like it reminds me of Link, you know, one of his like his moves.
Does any jumps forward and stabs?
Well, like Down B on Super Smash Bros.
He'll like jump and then you'll put the sword below him
and basically plow it into the ground no matter where he's going.
It'll do a lot of damage, but again, video game.
Like it feels like when I see Jor do that, I'm like, what are you doing, man?
I think Down B is bomb.
I think that's his regular just downward aerial attack
as he just sticks it downward and it's cheap as shit.
No, Down B is a bomb when you're standing.
It's once you're in air and you do it, at least.
I still think Down B in the air is pull out a bomb.
You could be right on that.
What am I thinking of?
I think you're thinking of it's the same attack,
but it's his aerial down A attack.
I think he just holds a sword downward.
It could be down A.
Maybe chat can down air Rags is right.
Yeah, that's what I thought.
That's what I thought.
It was how I haven't played Smash in so long.
I haven't played it in ages, but I remember how cheap that
stick to the sword is.
It was amazing.
It would get you like insta kills if their head is head,
if their health is, I say high enough.
You know what I mean?
Down B is down spiral.
Well, I'm thinking of melee, I think.
So when I say this stuff, I'm talking about melee.
I think you're right with, I'm pretty sure in that game,
it was a bomb as well.
We should play it either way.
Yeah, it seemed like more of a style move than practicality.
Just seemed out the window with that one.
So how did that knock him off his feet?
Unless he was leaning on the sword so much that it actually
supported a decent amount of his weight.
Then when he knocked the sword out underneath him,
he got knocked over.
He definitely stabbed it.
The guy hits the sword.
Yeah, it was like he kind of jumps away with it.
Maybe that's what he was going for.
He was like, oh, better get out of danger.
And then so he deflects the thing, knocks it out of the guy's hand.
Yeah, nice tussle.
And then obviously with this skipping to the end of this other fight
where this other guy is just straight up stabbed.
Yeah, that would kill someone.
Yeah, pretty sure.
Then considering the guy looks to have barely any armor at all.
I think he's about to get stabbed.
Yes, oh, okay.
And yeah, so the part that always and again,
talk about layman perspective, right?
So you saw that that knife just saved him in this fight, right?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Check out what he does with the knife.
Why not have a knife?
It's just it's so tiny and helpful.
And especially one that's sheathed in like your ankle.
It can come in handy when you're an awkward.
Yeah, you advance on someone thinking they're unarmed and then like a knife.
And they like Neelan.
So obviously Jorah is going to want to pick up his sword.
And perhaps she's the dagger ready for when he needs it again.
But no, he throws it away.
Why in the world would you do that when it just saved your life?
It's such a bizarre choice.
That's a very good question.
Are there not like teams here?
Is it just everyone?
It's literally like a free for all, which makes you wonder like, how does they not?
Well, I say it makes you wonder how they wouldn't be cheating,
but there is cheating, so it's all good.
So this is arming sword versus rapier.
What the hell is he doing?
It's obvious.
It's stylish.
It's it's the swallowtail technique.
It's it's it's well documented in all of the treatises.
That was your reaction to that.
It's such nonsense.
Like, whoa, what are you doing, buddy?
I'm about to fight this guy.
Like, what are you doing?
It's just there are flourishes you can do.
That's not one of them.
It didn't look good.
It just looked weird and all that.
That's not a rapier.
That's like a small sword.
I have no idea.
Oh, do you mean tiny is in like length or thickness?
No, no, no.
There's a type of sword called a small sword.
And they were popular.
Like, they're fucking they became popular as a type of dueling in the 1700s.
I don't think that's breastplate because look, it's stitched.
Yeah, like go back when he's when right before he makes a slash.
I think it's stitched.
I think it's you can see stitching.
Are those rivets or stitches?
I think they're supposed to be rivets.
Yeah, the quality is a little.
Yeah, it's tough to say, I guess.
Yeah, it is rivets.
It looked like stitches when it was in motion.
So I was going to give the edge to the rapier, but it's actually not using a rapier is using
a small sword, which is very out of period for something based around the medieval times.
And if that that makes it far more equivalent thing is, though, small swords are fast.
They're crazy fast because rapiers aren't like people make the mistake that rapiers are like
they're not.
They're as heavy as an arming sword.
The weight distribution is different.
Small swords are like they are like surprisingly light, sometimes half a kilo.
Right.
And so they can they can be fast as anything.
And so it's a far more equal matchup in this sense.
Because the other thing about them having such a small thin blade is they don't have
much blade presence.
And so if Jora, if you wanted, he could smack that small sword blade and knock it aside
really easily.
It's very hard for you to resist strikes because there's so little weight there.
And so because of that, it makes it far more equivalent.
If the guy had a proper rapier, he would have the edge.
When it comes to one on one jewels, rapiers are one of the most devastating swords you
can use by far.
And so like for continuity here, it's very confusing.
Jora strikes, he gets hit in the leg and then it cuts to Jora's just fine.
And then he gets stabbed by a thruster.
Couple things like first of all, what happened to that leg strike, I guess.
I guess that I guess it's fine.
I guess he hit him with the flat of it, maybe.
His pants have more protective value than his armor.
Jora clearly react to do it like, oh, you know, that sort of thing.
And then we cut to him being fine.
It's always weird like that.
So I'm just like, how does that happen in the editing process?
Or the other thing is like a small swords cut, like they can, they can cut with like
little slices, but they're not going to penetrate deep or slice off limbs, nothing like that.
They're not going to cut through thick armor and everything.
And so maybe he was reacting out of shock.
I got hit.
Oh, wait, it did nothing.
Yeah, it could be like, and so this
rust then that comes up, I feel like you would bend his sword before it would do that.
Yeah, like if that if that was a proper, you know,
steel breastplate, it's not getting through.
Not a chance.
And so your fate, you would put the odds on the actual the night in this case, would you?
With the armor, yes.
With the armor, yes.
If you didn't have the armor, it would be far more equivalent.
Wow, is that guy sort of almost look falchion like with the.
Yeah, I was going to say it kind of did.
I seem to get a good shot of it really, but
these horrible people celebrating death, how could they hear they?
It's good when we do it because it's all fictional.
And yeah, so these quick strikes, we're trying to block and attack, block and attack.
I feel like the the the bravosi dude is going to have a way better time.
Well, in reality, he would have far more blade presence than the other guy.
And so technically, if he really wanted, he could just try and do a really powerful strike,
let the guy try and block, but there's a chance that he could break the guy's guard and just
knock the sword down with his strike and still hit him regardless.
So he does not want to do a static block with such a thin blade like that.
He would only want to try and do parries that knock aside.
But we saw a lot of static blocks in the exchange just before.
And he would have a big disadvantage in that with a sword like what is using.
So it's over for sure.
And it's weird because he looks to the queen as if she's going to have to vote on it or something.
And then it's important.
But you just think, like, why isn't he killing him?
Why isn't he killing him?
He killing the other guy.
Yeah, I know.
Like, I bet he's wishing he had a dagger right now.
Yeah, dagger would be potentially lifesaving.
Crazy that the guy wasn't even looking at him before.
And so if I look at the stance he took there, he was going to, like,
full on link down him with the two hands on the sword.
And I guess instead of just going for a quick thrust into his neck with the sword,
which you think something else I could have done is grabbed the guy's blade.
I would have kept it at bay.
I mean, the second he goes up, Jorg could literally have tried to tackle him,
like, get up really quickly and just try and go for him.
A lot of things to try.
But yeah, he got backstabbed.
And then is that guy supposed to kill him?
Well, this is the thing.
It seems unfair, doesn't it?
They're more like guidelines.
Yeah.
Well, so the implication here is that man with spear was like,
okay, I'll knock out the tough to defeat opponent by stabbing in the back
and I'll let this old dude get up so I can fight him and get a glorious victory sort of thing.
Maybe.
Maybe he thought he wasn't very good based on the...
Yeah.
And I say that's the best head cannon you're going to get, I think.
I mean, that seems reasonable based on what we've seen.
You might think, oh, this old guy.
Yeah.
Like, he was just about to die, so he's probably not that good.
And so what are the odds with this one?
Because the opponent here with the armor looks...
He came in swinging it with one hand, which is just dumb.
No, it's a spear.
Use it with two hands.
And then he's trying to bludgeon him with hitting him on the side.
And see, like, he technically tried to hit him on the side and did nothing.
And then Jorah was able to grab it because what he was doing was dumb.
You thrust with a spear.
You don't try and whack people with it.
So, wow.
He could have pulled his sword back in a reverse cut and slashed him under his arm there.
It was like position.
The sword was there.
It was already touching the guy's underarm.
And he was like, just cut him.
There's a lot of potential for that there because it does look like he's locked it
almost in the position he needs it.
His arm was raised and it was open and it was just cloth there.
His sword was sitting there and he could have slashed him under the arm there.
That was a good grab, but it probably wouldn't have done much against his plate, right?
Especially if he'd grabbed it.
It would have reduced the force.
All right, well, armor works now.
Yeah.
What was that?
See, armor doesn't work anymore.
Right through both.
What is that he's wearing?
It looks like almost like it's got holes in it.
You guys managed to.
What is that he's wearing?
Yeah, it's got like holes in it.
Like it's porous.
I see what you mean.
Yeah, yeah.
Which which would explain how he gets the sword through Rags.
Absolutely.
Mate, well, let me I'm what because I got it open on YouTube because I want to see.
Yeah, it's a very odd looking.
He looks like he sort of just walks the sword into him.
Yeah, it's not even much force.
I mean, he rolled forward to do a thrust.
I mean, the guy with the spear, all he needed to do is just thrust him when he was on the ground
with no guard.
Yes.
Staff.
She's not going to do some assault in front of the opponents.
And so at this point, you have to ask, like they have
like oriographers and armor slash medieval experts, don't they?
Like it wouldn't be too much.
I don't know.
Maybe they stopped paying the people they hired in the earlier seasons
and thought we could do this.
We saw how they did it.
We can do it.
It's crazy because you'd imagine like, would they be that expensive?
Do you know?
Like, I wouldn't have thought.
I don't think so.
I mean, there's a lot of people who honestly do it for free almost,
or they'd have to be paid very minimally, like me or Matt Easton from Scholar Gladiatoria.
Like, and he would be better.
He's like, you know, he teaches this stuff and has done it for years.
Again, even on board, all the guys that we video, we watch the
a lot of people, a door, a door.
People get them and gosh.
But a lot of people in chat have mentioned the deluge dual.
Do you know what that is?
I do not.
I do not know either.
Oh, let's give it a shot.
See what we're dealing with here.
Because I actually have literally no idea.
Oh, this looks like it's from the jewels.
Oh, is that it?
It might be.
From not wasting time here.
Let me use the loo.
I think I've seen this one.
It's a saber.
Oh, yeah, they have been saying it's a saber bow.
Oh, yeah.
Okay, I'll draw it back a bit.
Make sure we don't miss any of the context.
Ah, god position.
And it's funny, it doesn't take much.
Just having a proper guard position improves the fight scene so much.
And you stand side face to make sure you limit the amount of places they can attack, right?
Exactly.
You know, I actually know that from Game of Thrones.
It's a very basic thing, but it's in season one.
Again, they say that.
You're like, what happened?
What happened, Game of Thrones?
Especially with one, if you're using a one handed sword.
But if you're using like a secondary thing, or like a second weapon, or using a two hand weapon,
your chest doesn't need to be a bit more presented just so you can hold it right.
But it's always going to be on an angle.
Yes, some basic exchanges.
They look fine.
And then, presenting the tip, keeping your opponent bay.
There's a guy on the right, and he's got a very formal stance.
This is from Pillar on the Roof.
Ah, cool.
I have no idea.
Yeah, this was a part near the middle.
Yeah, where everyone stood around with their swords.
And they're in the village.
And then the two, the top Jews fought for the position of head Jew.
Really?
Because I watch the music.
This is clearly not the musical I watch.
No, no, this is the musical.
Yeah, they're in between songs.
Question, that's what he's got right there.
Could he not thrust and potentially kill?
Well, yes and no.
If he angled it to the point where he could keep his opponent's sword at bay and hold a guard
position, yes, absolutely.
If he did it wrong and he went forward with a thrust and keeping his head exposed,
the guy's sword is in a position to do a very solid strike to the side of his head.
I was actually going to say, all his opponent needs to do there is sidestep,
and then he gets a perfect opening, right?
Yeah, exactly.
So you always have to balance up what your opponent can do to counter and things.
So risk reward.
Exactly.
Yeah, these sounds are not good enough.
You need swing, swing, swing.
How to improve your fight.
Yeah, if he lunged forward quickly, but I guess they just...
Oh, I like what he did there.
Is this sort of like he's baiting him to take the shot?
Yeah, well, he's not then capitalizing on it, right?
If you get someone to try and engage your blade,
and you just move your blade out of the way so it misses completely,
that generally leaves your opponent open.
And then if you follow that up with a thruster or something,
it's a great move and stuff.
And so just looping it out of the way.
I've done that before.
It's a wonderful technique.
It's good to see him doing it, but he's not capitalizing on it
because when that guy swings down, he's open once the sword misses.
This guy's a bold one.
Okay, so that was interesting.
What they were doing there was a more Hollywood kind of choreography
where they repeat the same move in repeated succession
just so they have the movement on camera
and it looks kind of engaging and stuff.
I'm not an expert with saber fencing,
and I do know there's a lot more kind of blocks and repetition
on type of moves with saber fencing.
Don't quote me on that.
Like I said, I'm not an expert.
But to the extent that we saw there, that was for the choreography.
Uh, I'm guessing that's some form of a toad to the way.
It was supposed to be a flourish as it was not a good one.
Wait, so what is that for exactly?
Showing off, like flourishes have a couple of important things.
They help develop proficiency and comfort with the sword.
Proficiency is your ability to use it
and kind of know where the blade is without looking at it.
So you can move it and manipulate it without hitting yourself.
And so practicing flourishing really helps out with that.
And it looks really good as well.
And so it's a great way for intimidating your opponent
and showing competency with the blade and proficiency, like I said.
And so people who say that flourishes are useless
and you should never learn them, that's no.
They're useless in the sense of actually trying to use them in the fight.
But for other things, no, they're like flourishing has some important roles to play.
But what he was doing was a very, I like that.
Look at my sword.
It's fiends.
Maybe if the light reflects, you might be able to attack the opponent.
You know, it could work.
Yeah, fast I can move my sword.
You swing that like a flail, sir.
That's insulting.
Well, I never consider it that much.
I just like flails.
I would be greatly insulted.
I dare you.
The flail is amazing.
It's much better than I saw your video.
I'm sorry.
I agree with you.
The camera was awfully tight on some of those shots to the point where I'm like,
I can't even tell what exactly is happening.
But there we are.
But the guy on the left is keeping a fairly solid stance.
And he's usually ending in a guard position from each position.
And so that's good.
And so you'll not what I was noticing there is like after an engagement or a strike is
usually moving from guard position to guard position to guard position.
And that that is solid form.
So that was good to see.
The other guy is a bit more flailing.
And that was a very telegraphed strike.
And then a disarm.
So they're doing a very showing in a very effective way that one opponent is easily
more skilled than the other.
The other guy had less form, less, you know, structure and what he was doing.
And, you know, the guy on the left, it was, you know, holding a good stance.
And so that's good.
It's actually a good fight for what they're trying to show.
Doing the honorable thing again.
It does feel a bit, you know,
defeat someone who didn't have a sword.
You don't feel great about it.
But if you did, it's funny.
Yeah, it's the whole point of disarming them.
You disarm them and then followed that up with a strike right away.
I don't think anyone would say, well, that was dishonorable.
Like, no, you got it.
But if you disarm them, but they back away, then you're like, oh,
now you're going to make me look like now I'll look bad if I hit you.
You see how fast I move my sword.
I want to do some more flippy flaps.
This was the sword I moved quickly.
You might not have seen it the first time.
He looks very unimpressed in this stance.
Well, we go.
You know, obviously, chat.
None of us have any idea who these characters are, what's happening here.
So we got no context to explain anything that might be
additional interesting information.
Just the council.
This is the council of Rivendell.
Yes, this is standing with their cloaks and their swords.
This is Elrond and Frodo on the fellowship.
I sound a suspect there, Rags.
I don't trust you.
That's correct.
Because we've established this is from Fiddler on the Roof.
Clearly.
Wide swings.
That was a faint, right?
Yeah, I I missed it a bit.
I got distracted by thinking of Fiddler on the Roof.
Thanks, Rags.
Sorry, they're telegraphing on the other guy.
Yeah, he looks like he's a little desperate.
As a few people point out in chat as well, there's a lot of,
and this isn't just with this fight, it's a lot of fights in general that
it's almost like they're aiming to hit the swords as opposed to each other.
Yeah, which helps for the visual of it, I guess.
That's one of the first things you need to learn what to do when you're learning
sword fighting is distance and timing and know and figuring out how to strike and move forward
in such a way that your sword is in range of actually hitting the opponent.
Because when people first pick up swords, they're too hesitant to do that.
And yeah, they just start hitting swords instead of aiming for the opponent.
It's how you it's a clear sign of a noob.
Oh, wide, wide telegraph swings, the guys all.
Yeah, so look, this is a good fight scene, actually, like because the sloppy sword fighting
on one side is clearly intentional, because the other guy is fighting really well.
He's very composed.
Now, if you wanted, if he if he just turned his sword a little bit and sliced it sideways,
he would take off the guy's fingers.
So this is one of the dumb things in like movies.
They love crossing the swords and the face is getting close and saying you insulted my mother.
Shame on you.
So it seems to be the the blonde guy is basically saying like, I know you can beat me, just do it.
Yeah, it's just from a someone who's done sword fighting.
It's so frustrating to see because whenever there's war slash, whenever the swords connect,
it's an opportunity to capitalize and do so much.
And so when they don't do that, they just hold the swords on.
It's frustrating. And now the guys that looks like you
I was curious what that strike was.
It only looked like it would have grazed the top of his head.
Yeah, it didn't cleft the skull.
It just cut him to the skull.
But from the look of it, that's not a death blow.
Maybe the guy's his his faking.
He's alive.
He hasn't fallen on his back.
Is that how that works?
You don't you fall on your back if you're dead in front of it.
It's news to everyone.
Use your furry hats.
Well, that guy's pretty darn tall.
Yes, he's all that is.
Holy shit.
I had a heart.
I told him most of the class around.
They call me the fuzzy mountain.
Oh, it was not a slash.
It pierced the skull.
Oh, did it?
Perhaps it was like a thrust into this.
I'm just not sure.
No, he's oh, he didn't kill him.
You just made him artistic that the tricky thing is right.
The skull is rounded.
And if you're going to try and thrust towards the skull more often than not,
the tip will be deflected off or only penetrate a small amount and get stuck in.
Bone is pretty hard.
And I don't like in reality, be very hard to thrust through the skull with a sword.
So you need something pretty powerful.
Of course, you get.
The Jew must fall on his back to die.
Okay.
Is that how that works?
I don't know.
I don't know.
It was from the film.
Yes.
I've never seen a Jew die.
Have you seen Oldboy, Shad?
I have not.
So this is a famous battle scene because it's all one take.
And the way they shoot it is that one of these walls disappears.
So the camera can film it all from one side.
And it's generally looked at as one of the best fight scenes ever.
Let's roll it back.
Rags would have seen.
I don't know if you've seen the movie, right?
You've seen YMS's take on it, I assume.
Yeah, I've seen this fight scene, but I haven't seen the whole movie.
Well, they are doing the accommodating thing so far as going in one at a time,
which was, you know, nice of them.
Yeah.
But that's, you can't, it's sometimes hard to avoid that.
Super difficult with this one because everybody needs to be on point with this to make the scene
work.
So if you find like, oh, I have a chance to actually hurt him here, but I can't do that
for the scene.
Like you'll have awkward moments like that throughout more than likely.
It is funny, though.
I do have to admit when I have seen like fighting where it's multiple people against one person,
it is surprising to see how hesitant some people are to try and engage.
Like see how he's fighting one person.
Sometimes I've found other people are hesitant to try and rush and hit the opponent for fear
that they'll hit the guy that's in the middle of the tussle with them at that very moment.
So they can be a bit hesitant because of that.
But the guy did rushing from behind them.
So that was good to say that they're getting it up.
And when you get to this point, you're like, how could he possibly win this?
It's like, well, perseverance.
You do get when you have a group of people, it does get awkward as to like,
a lot of them will just be like, I think someone's hitting him.
So I don't need to do anything.
And this is a small, thin corridor.
Yeah.
So if they're just using sticks, well, he's got the deadlier weapon with a hammer.
Yeah, there's an assortment of weapons here, but mainly seems to be sticks.
And then punching and kicking, of course.
He's always hitting the feet with a hammer at that point, which is going to be it.
That was one guy that just looked like he was leaning on him with his foot.
Oh, stabbed through the back.
Yes, he does get stabbed through the back.
And it almost seems like everyone's like, well, there you go.
Yeah, that's that.
And you'll notice as well, the handle looks a bit dodgy because it's CGI.
You'll see it moving or jittering us a little bit.
Yeah, I suggest a little bit.
Yeah.
You know, kudos for the two of them, because that's tough.
It's tough to get all that right, especially.
I'm not sure when this got released, but hopefully chat can just use a fake handle.
Oh, did he just like block that on his hand?
I'm not sure, actually.
Because, you know, that's a solid bit of wood.
And that was swung with some pretty, you know, big speed behind it.
That would hurt like hell.
Just taking it on your forearm.
Obviously, this guy is a tank.
Oh, no, it looks like it's.
He slipped and threw it.
And yes, he is a tank, actually.
He's gone through years and years of trading.
So it's enough to try and make this as believable as they can.
Yeah, well, the big advantage he has here, obviously, is the narrow corridor.
Yeah, he is using that to his advantage.
He said he moved to one side to put them all on one end and now they're bottlenecked.
And he only has to deal with like maybe two to three at a time if they're trying to rush him.
And so he's in a much better position than being caught in the middle.
That's for sure.
Yeah, they have that establishing shot right before this to show that narrowness.
Yeah, yeah.
And they're all getting a little like, oh, maybe, maybe don't, maybe don't attack this guy.
Yeah, they weren't.
It's very obvious.
They're not like trained, they're just street thugs.
Yeah, they're fighting skill.
And, you know, they don't want to get hurt themselves.
Exactly.
And they've seen him fight off so long already.
I'd be second guessing myself.
I wouldn't want to start it again.
You guys go and get them a watch.
Yeah, you got this.
You got this, Carl, Jim.
Yeah, and the big, big dude getting in the way of everyone else really.
So it just makes sense.
Pick up the stick.
Do it.
You're taking off the shirt.
That is like intimidation tactic.
They're letting a few fall behind.
People do that in real life.
Oh, he took that off.
Yeah, he did block the stick with the arm there and it broke.
That must have a hit.
He's got a knife in him.
He does.
You think maybe try and pull it out, use it.
Actually, that is a good idea.
Doing really well with the,
he anticipated a punch from behind him there and actually ducked under it.
Not completely.
And I mean, that's for like to show his superhuman skill,
even though it's probably not meant to be betrayed as a super human in real life,
is fighting at a superhuman level because good luck fighting like this in real life.
Now you're at the point where the majority of the people in this thing are just tired.
You know, that's actually one of the lies I feel can be perpetuated in some martial arts.
Not all, but I do feel that some martial arts or some martial arts have this idea that if they
train, if they just train enough, they can fight like what they, you know,
have seen people fight in movies and martial art movies and stuff.
Oh, notice the big guy is grabbing his leg where he got hit by a hammer earlier.
So there's a bit of continuity there where he kicked and then got hit with a hammer on the side.
Good stuff.
You just threw that stick.
You missed.
You missed.
Look at that, is he dead?
Not quite.
I think it's just stuck subtitles.
Oh, right.
Yeah, well, either way, it's a good title for this whole battle, I think.
Got my hammer.
Careful knocking your back against the wall.
I don't want to lean against it.
Push that knife all the way in.
And yeah, they are.
So they remade this film like an American version and the fight scene is so much worse.
Paid for.
Yeah, there you go.
You get your dice.
That's how narrow.
That was a great fight scene.
It's typically looked at as one of the best fight scenes that exists for films.
And I think that it deserves that sort of vision.
Such an amazing feat as well.
Could pull one shot.
They're taking a decent chunk of time to get right.
The blood comes out.
Yeah.
He's not he's not as healthy as possible.
But yeah, yeah, we get to see a elevator full of these dudes.
What would you be thinking?
He was like, what?
And then he just opens it and they all fall out.
Bit of movie magic there.
I'm not sure how they stayed up, but hey, yeah, it's a good start.
Good one.
I like that one.
I thought it's also mentioned in chat and I figured why not?
It's such a classic.
I'm going to assume that you've seen Lord of the Rings.
Oh, of course.
Of course.
Rags, have you seen Lord of the Rings?
I have.
My goodness.
I know someone who hasn't.
He's called Jay, which is disgusting.
Yeah, specifically Fellowship of the Ring where good old Mr.
Litz fights.
Let's see if I can find it first.
Copyright issues.
I will keep the cover up for us.
Oh, do you want to dispel the idea that you should be using a bow if you are a
female character because bows require less strength.
Always a standard one you get.
Yeah, I know.
I know.
And it is cool to see like a strong base character using
tough as bow, you know, and so it's rare, but it's good to see.
Yeah, because people just it's almost associated now.
Thanks to media that it's like, oh, you're a female.
You can use a bow.
You're like, why?
Give them a long way.
I've I've a fire or shot a 80 pound bow.
And when you pull it back, well, you feel it like like your mind and that's
right because I haven't conditioned myself to it, of course.
And your back muscles just burn.
But I could shoot it, though.
That was my kind of thing.
I was like, ah, so it wasn't too difficult, but you can certainly feel it.
This is this is fantasy.
But I can I can give, you know, I can I can conceive it to certain elements
in fantasy because it is fantasy.
And you want, you know, heroes to fight on a level much higher than in reality.
Oh, stuff of that year, because this this fight, it's really gritty suddenly with
how they're both sort of they've lost all their primary weapons.
Just through the leg.
We have a funny story, actually, you know, like show and tell back in school,
you know, good old fashioned show and tell a friend of mine for show and tell in like
year four brought in Lord of the Rings Fellowship of the Ring.
And he wanted to play this scene in full.
And like several girls in our class got legitimately terrified of Lutz
to the point where the teacher was like, we can't show this.
It's too scary.
And all the guys were like, Oh, God, please finish it.
So good.
I don't know.
I think I think we're so soft these days.
Have you seen some of those kids movies that are back in the day, like Watership Down?
Oh, yeah, dude.
Terrifying.
Johnny quest.
He motherfucking killed people.
Return to Oz.
You guys see that movie?
I can't.
Terrified children everywhere.
Come on, chat.
Who was terrified by return to Oz?
Fucking wheeler.
Tell you what, like, movies that freak me out.
Was it like never ending story and the legend?
That's like with a really young Tom Cruise in it.
Oh, legend.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Great, great stuff.
Great stuff.
But there were parts just that they freaked me out as a kid.
You know, like, Oh, I remember, like, Robin Hood, Prince of Thieves.
Right.
I love it.
I love it.
Right.
There's so many quality things in it.
I've I've made four dedicated videos, ripping it apart.
I love that.
I still love it.
Right.
I love it.
I watched it when I was pretty young and the scene where the sheriff
runs through Guy of Gisborne.
I have vivid memories of me cringing and holding my gut.
Just like I see that sword go through his gut.
Yeah.
In fairness, when he licks the knife covered in blood, this demonic creature,
I can see why people find it a bit creepy.
But my goodness, is it awesome?
It's deflected the knife.
Is there anything cooler than that?
Yeah.
In case you guys didn't know, he really deflected a real knife.
Dude, I didn't know he did that.
Yeah.
It was supposed to be a prop knife to know it was a real knife,
and he actually deflected it.
I believe that's the story.
Well, yeah, dude.
Yeah, I mean, how fucking cool is that, though?
How cool is that?
He broke his foot and all sorts of shit.
Yeah, he chipped his tooth.
You know the part where he jumps off the ruin and lands on some other guys?
He actually chipped his tooth from that stunt, and they had to glue it back on,
and he just kept on rolling.
Oh, dude.
Viggo Maunson pulled out all the stops for his rolling.
There it went.
Yeah, I love this bit.
It's just full on attack, attack, attack, attack.
And then, ah, yeah, see, that's great.
Love it.
Pulls it in.
Terrifying women everywhere.
And boom.
And I like sometimes, because he's using such a good, you know, designed longsword
that looks so authentic and realistic, and seeing and showing that, you know,
good longswords, they can do some serious cuts.
They can, and they can, like, it's just, it was satisfying to see arm taken off,
and then a head taken off.
What about the the Uruk-Aye weapons?
What do you think of them?
They're very, like, fantasy.
And so, in a fantasy setting, they're perfectly fine for the type of, you know, warriors.
Pretty blunt.
They're like execution, one-edged executioner swords.
And for what the Uruk-Aye are?
I think they're so stylish that they just, you associate them with who the Uruk-Aye are,
and you're just like, oh, yeah, that's, that's the Uruk-Aye weapon.
Yeah, it's just a sharpened bit of metal.
And in reality, you would not want to use a sword like that, because it'd be so heavy and cumbersome.
But the Uruk-Aye are stronger than humans.
They can handle it.
Well, well.
Yeah, I mean, I don't want to keep you for longer than you're able,
because you implied earlier that it might be an hour that you're available,
and you've now been here for three, so.
Might be to leave it there, but I've just been having so much fun that,
you know, completely lost track of time.
Because it's the thing, we all see these action scenes,
we just love the shit out of them.
And then we're like, oh, fuck, we should probably think about exactly what's going on here,
just to ruin it for ourselves.
Well, it's funny, because I can, I can actually kind of compartmentalize a bit and put aside
and just try and enjoy a fight scene, especially if it's well choreographed,
and it just looks nice, and it's visually interesting, I can still enjoy it.
It's just when you really try and break it down, you're like, and sometimes,
even when I do try and, you know, put my critical side away,
there are things that are so dumb that it's impossible to ignore, and you're like, what?
Well, for instance, the TLJ big battle sequence, there is, everything is wrong.
Just like everything.
Yeah.
Can't imagine how much fun that was for you.
Oh, gosh.
Yeah, because I've done a video, I've reviewed Ray's fighting style,
and there is a part in, oh, gosh, my goodness.
But the other thing is, what's disappointing about it all,
is that I don't know why Hollywood hasn't caught on to the fact
that they can make their fight scenes more accurate,
and they would look better as a result, and it wouldn't be any harder
than these overly elaborate, convoluted choreographed messes that they try and make.
It's a mystery, and there's people already showing that it can be dumb,
like that video we watched where it was done with real historical technique,
and it looks so much better.
Oh, my goodness.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And this is the thing, I hope we can kind of push for that.
It would be cool, because, you know, we've seen a lot of the usual stuff.
Maybe it's about time, so we'll focus on that.
And, you know, these movies do exist.
Someone in chat's going to be like, oh, you need to see this.
This has already happened.
Well, it's funny, I just saw one.
I just saw someone say, have I ever covered Rob Roy?
I haven't covered it in a video, but I've watched it.
And the Rob Roy fight scene at the end is great.
That's another really good fight scene.
Oh, there you go.
If you guessed again in future, we shall put that one and TLJ on the list.
I think people are going to want to see you maybe talk about something to that.
So I'll make a note.
Rob Roy, I think Kingdom of Heaven was mentioned a whole bunch as well.
And yeah, that's actually that has some interesting elements in that.
There's a big fight scene where he takes on a couple of armored knights.
And there's actually some good parts in that one in the Kingdom of Heaven one.
And there's a beginning fight, too, where you've got Liam Neeson's in it.
It's true.
But all right.
We'll have to save that for another time, then.
Well done.
Yeah, man.
It has been fantastic to have you.
Do you want to talk to my audience a bit about why they should subscribe?
So you and I'll pop your link in chat so they can all rush over.
Because I can be a bit spastic with my over-enthusiasm.
It's fun.
There's an endorsement.
It's just I'm a nerdy guy who likes nerdy things and with an over-obsession with swords,
weapons, armor and stuff.
And so I love to break things down, see how they could have been applied better in fantasy,
but also to share when things are done right as well.
And so it's kind of like a splicing between medieval weapons and armor and pop culture and
things.
That's kind of what I do.
And if you're interested in that kind of stuff, you'll enjoy my content.
Yeah, I'm very much subscribed to enjoying stuff.
If you guys like just search for shad and then a keyword of any sort,
you should probably find something that you'll find interesting.
Like, I mean, a good starter might be for them to check out.
Your Thanos, Thanos dual sword video is started.
Check out a bunch of stuff.
The first video I saw from you, funnily enough,
was the one where you're testing out the 3D printed armor and swords, which...
They went well, didn't they?
Yeah, what was your impression of that one?
The funny thing is, I think that's when I first started to take armor much more seriously.
I was like, oh, wow.
Even the 3D printed armor actually manages to block a couple of things here.
Yeah, Katana, it blocks a Katana.
Yeah, Shadiversity slash Shad, right?
It's the channel versus the name.
Exactly.
Yeah, so plenty of videos.
Just check all the titles and find something you want to watch,
and then you'll eventually end up watching them all, I'm sure.
Very entertaining.
Oh, thanks for having me, guys.
This has been great.
No problem.
Obviously, you'll be welcome to come back and talk more about swords,
castles, and how bad everything is, immediate.
Well, I'll see you there, then.
Yeah, take care of yourself. Good stuff, man.
And then there were two.
You and I.
You know what, Rags, you should talk about how you've been.
What have you been up to in the time you've been away?
You missed a whole ephat.
How could you?
Yeah, you guys had Act Man on.
He actually showed up this time.
He did?
I haven't watched it yet.
My access to the internet was pretty limited,
but I was gone up, and I went up to Missouri, family stuff, Mother's Day, all that.
Met a bunch of people I hadn't seen in a long time, so I actually got back.
For those of you who aren't aware, it is 6.40 in the morning where I am.
I left around 8 o'clock to get here a little bit after midnight,
because I needed to be here, you know?
So I slept before I left, got up, and here I am.
If you schedule an ephap at 3 a.m., then damn it.
I'm going to be up at 3 a.m. doing an ephap.
That's the thing.
I was sitting on the previous stream.
Oh yeah, I got an ephap, you know, ages from now.
It's like, oh god, it's an hour.
Got to get everything ready.
All I've been doing is internet today,
and I need to do more interneting before going to sleep.
I don't need to eat food.
It's insane, but well worth it.
I love this episode.
That was great.
Yeah, there's a lot to learn.
I really like shadowversity stuff.
I like listening to him talk about things.
An excellent guest.
It's absorbing all the information.
Once you put him in his element,
you could tell that he likes his sort of medieval stuff.
So, because it wasn't necessarily intending
to just watch seeds and talk about them,
but Matt, is it fun just to go through and be like-
It is fun to look through it and analyze it.
I really like that.
Yes, I'm still up from yesterday, Jay.
What stream we over?
Gives us a little break from the superhero Star Wars stuff.
Branching out a bit.
Matt, well, I talked to,
because I have many guns being the right proper American that I am,
but I don't have any swords.
So, I talked to shadowversity about getting one,
and he recommended me a company,
and I bought a sword from Albion from his recommendation.
So, he is a very helpful guy.
Awesome.
Yeah, we recommend everyone should get swords.
Not to kill people, just to have a sword.
Honestly, it should be mandatory that every house has at least one sword.
And yeah, you were not on the previous one because you were away,
and Wolf is not on this one because he's currently sleeping,
but on top of that, Wolf will be leaving next Sunday, I believe.
So, we're maybe going to have enough time to fit in.
We're going to try and do a recording session for eFap movies
while releasing our next eFap movies on Sunday.
And the one we're releasing is-
Let's keep it as a surprise, Rags.
It's the one we did most recently, the excellent film.
I'll just say Blind should be able to.
So yeah, exciting stuff.
And I'll be putting up the stream me and Wolf did on Moolah as well.
It's just basically us ripping apart.
It's like a review of the episode,
and we even got joined by geeks and gamers,
which apparently because Wolf's not going to be around on Sunday
because he's going to be gone.
I'll probably be streaming my reaction to the fifth
or the sixth episode with Jeremy again,
and possibly that Star Wars girl.
So that'll be fun too.
But for now, it's time for us to read some super chats.
Let's make sure we get all this noise and toyed up
before we possibly hit Bird Box.
Everyone's assuming Bird Box from Blind.
Nope, not Bird Box.
Not Bird Box.
Nope, it's the blindening.
The blinding too.
What about the third one?
Blinding Revelations.
No, Blinding Revengeance.
Revengeance.
It's 4.43am here.
Too bad I have to go to bed.
Soon I'll be around as long as I can.
Well, no problem, Legion,
because it'll all be on Moolah, like I said.
Plenty of-
We go-
I think it was like a five hour stream,
plus this three hour one, you'll get plenty of stuff.
I don't know.
We only recently did the other eFap.
I feel like I've been-
I need to start working on videos.
I've got two rage videos potentially to make now
because of Game of Thrones.
I don't know what I'm supposed to be doing anymore.
I was thinking about it.
Like, I'll probably talk to you about it right,
see what you think.
But this episode that just came out was so bad.
I was like, surely I have to make a rage video for this one,
but I just skipped the last one
that I could have made a rage video for.
Chat was saying I should make a rage video.
I was just fucking-
I don't know anymore.
I don't know what-
What-
Where's up and down?
That's my question.
Do I even make a season one?
I'm gonna make rages for each individual one?
I don't even know.
I tell you, man, passion-
Passionate rage is-
It gets in the way of a consistent release schedule.
That's-
That is my objective opinion.
Either way, I'll keep an eye on what people are thinking,
but I think it's more than likely
I'll make a rage video for this recent episode,
because good god, I've never been so angry on behalf of-
Character I'm not even a huge fan of.
As well as all the other dumb shit.
I'm looking for-
I can show you some of it, Rags.
You'll-
You'll find in the music what happened in the last episode.
But anyway-
Yay!
I think they crafted coherent time travel by accident.
The director's explanations for how time travel works in the movie
doesn't fit with what's seen-
Oh yeah.
The Russo brothers have been saying some interesting things in interviews.
I've, uh, I have found.
It's very, very strange.
To quote another YouTuber, MrEnter,
the most consistent time travel story is the story without time travel.
I hope you got that right.
I fuckin' talked to me, Wolf, possibly Rags, and definitely Fringy.
Just don't do it.
Just don't do time travel.
Just don't do it.
Also, don't cheat on your wife.
That too.
Uh, pro tip.
Captain Marvel should have been Adam Warlock instead.
He was set up at the Under Guardians 2,
and they could make a Terminator-style movie
where Adam is trying to kill the Guardians instead we got Plank.
Yeah, but she's such a great character.
People are saying, watch the Jeremy Johns vid.
Uh, we can do that at the end if people really want me to check it out.
I'm assuming he's changed his mind on, um, Game of Thrones,
which could be interesting.
Gone from loving to hating.
All of my-
Hello all my M words.
Yeah, we're all massive here.
We're all very open about it.
I'm kind of glad I never got far into Game of Thrones,
otherwise I would want to finish it or more.
Very annoyed at what it's become.
Yeah, of course people are stayed with it.
Back with another one of these, Mauler.
The more I think about this episode,
the more I love it for being so red-billed
on the type of power-hungry lunatic SJW worm in whom Danny typifies.
Again, I don't know, um, I don't know what the reaction from people
who love Danny is going to be.
Some of them feel like it's justified.
I think some people are very angry.
I, uh, I'll be interested to see what's happened.
Mauler, Danny forgot the bells meant they surrendered.
It makes sense, okay?
Stop being a hater.
She forgot.
Thank you, Shad, for inspiring me to do unspeakable things
with a very long PVC pipe at night.
I'm not sure how he would have reacted to that.
Why not just say that the character forgot?
It's easy.
Anyone can write.
Why?
Because Whammin with power who get rejected by a guy
who go dick crazy are actually not rational people.
She's always been a shite leader.
I agree with that.
I don't agree that she's always been cool with murdering innocent people
by the thousands.
Another one.
Season seven.
I don't want to be a queen of the ashes.
Season eight.
Lanny's get out re.
Yeah.
That quote didn't age well, did it?
She says in season seven, I don't want to be queen of the ashes.
And it's like, she just burned the shit out of everybody, okay?
And I'm sure people will be like,
ah, but you missed you.
You skipped over the important character development.
Yes, of course.
Shad rags in Mauler.
What a glorious day, rags.
When can we expect videos?
I'm starting to feel withdrawal.
Spread love, happiness, and love.
I'm trying.
I really am trying.
This one's just a slog to do.
And there will never be another one like it
because of how much of a slog it is.
I've learned my lesson.
There you go.
I know you said it before, but what might you guys use again?
Also, oh, wait.
Well, so the 80 2020 is what I'm using.
What are you using, rags?
I use the 80 2020 USB plus.
Oh, there you go.
So I think mine's the USB one, yours is the XLR one.
Yes.
They're very good.
They're like 100, 120 bucks around there.
Very worth it, I think.
I've had this one for years and years.
Never any problems with it.
Works great.
Also, what milk did the cosmic chicken drink
before it laid the cosmic egg?
Oh, but we can answer that really.
That's...
There are some things that people just aren't meant to know.
That's what we call high law.
Like there's law and then there's high law.
High law is like...
These are just mysteries of the universe.
Yeah, to access high law, it takes like so many microtransactions
and DLCs and stuff that take you to high laws.
It's crazy.
Mortals like us were never meant to know such answers.
That, yeah, there you go.
Does cosmic chicken milk exist and what does it taste like?
Only the cosmic chicken knows.
I was going to say that's really high powered milk
that really isn't accessible on like a lower...
They say it would drive a regular mortal man mad.
With knowledge and texture.
Yes.
Glad to see Shad on here.
I recently got into his channel and love his videos.
I'm at work now so I can't stay.
Have fun.
I recommend it.
Everyone get into his videos.
It's just fun knowledge to absorb.
And who doesn't love swords, shields, armor, castles,
all that good stuff?
Yeah, man.
It's good stuff.
She destabilizes empires and genocides people everywhere she goes.
Brings savages who reap and pillage like no one else
and goes through advisors faster than light.
Varus was based and correct-pilled.
Varus probably shouldn't have gotten behind in season like five or four even,
if that were something he felt.
I don't know what took him so long to realize
that if he was always going to come to that conclusion.
Five dollars to support you and your work.
I just wanted to see if you got my DM about Primer
and why I thought it was interesting and will you watch it with the others?
Yeah, I'll try and watch Primer with like wolf rags,
maybe even Fringy as well.
And we could all try and figure it out
because I remember it being, it's quite high concept.
Or Fringy by telling him, hey, let's watch this fun movie.
It'll be great.
And then it was what it was.
We'll reassure him that this one is legitimately a...
Like, no, no, no.
This will be a different movie.
I swear it's not like Unicorn Store Fringy, please.
Hey Shad, are you going to do your trademark scream?
We may have gone near that at some points during this podcast.
Maybe that's going to be the bait for the round two when he comes back.
Maybe I should put armor on these barn-sized flying lizards, nah.
Well, who needs armor when you can obliterate every single scorpion
in just like 10 seconds?
Why not?
Hey, man, if it's your time, if the plot says it's your time, then go with no fear.
Thanks, Shad, for your Darth Maul blade video.
Yeah, it was good shit.
Who let the rags out?
Who?
Who, who, who?
Chris Avalon.
It was me.
I let myself out.
I'm in control of my destiny.
The creator of KOTOR 2, Shad on TLJ.
Really?
Sounds hilarious.
Keep them masses.
The creator of KOTOR 2, Shad on TLJ, apparently.
Oh, yeah, I heard that.
Chris Avalon.
The new order, yeah.
Keep them masses away from Star Wars, boy.
They're coming to Star Wars.
There's nothing we can do to stop it, apparently.
Well, Molly, you're missing a crucial plot point.
Extras and expendables wear hard leather armor or light armor,
while protagonists have plot armor.
Yeah, plot armor's really expensive, but it's well worth it, I'd say.
Jorah said the broadsword was built to pierce plate.
I should have, we should probably have, this is the thing,
we did definitely go over it with Shad, so.
No, like, you can't, like, just stab, you certainly can't slash through it,
but you can't just stab a sword through plate mail.
It's like it's a solid piece of thick metal.
Gonna be tough.
Ah, blue, blue.
Dany suffered so much and she was treated so unfairly.
Most people loved, John Love got killed, his life was a lie,
he literally died and he's still a good person, this shit show just got redeemed.
I think that's fair, yeah.
A lot of people go through tough stuff and don't turn out to be psychopathic murderers,
so maybe Dany is being forgiven a little bit too quickly by a lot of people.
Even as someone who never liked Game of Thrones, I'm sorry it turned so sour.
I used to say I dislike slash don't watch it, but at least I can say it's good.
Well, the vision is coming, yep.
Shard, which duel from Star Wars you think is the best?
I will have to, I wish we could have asked him that.
They even bothered to show Arya stab the Night King in a gap,
but forget armor works later, hi Shad.
Yes, it's a really strange gap as well.
Makes me wonder why he would have a gap.
Yeah, go to Shad's channel after Efap, good content, plus he's a massive.
Yep, that's, yep, absolutely.
Mauler, have you asked the episode nine and adoption question?
Yes, adoption question.
How would you proper Bill Hook fair versus plate?
Again, I guess I should have kept an eye on if there were any relevant questions for Shad,
because obviously me and Rags can't answer these, not that I know of.
Do you know what a Bill Hook, a proper Bill Hook is Rags?
Yeah, it's a it's a kind of weapon.
How is it fair against plate armor?
I don't know.
It might be because it's like a generally it's like a knife size thing with a
like a thick knife and it's got a little pointy in that comes out of the top.
You can hook people like it.
I don't I don't know.
I don't know if it's I don't know if you I don't think you can pierce plate with it
like plate serious business.
Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't think so.
Dad, any thoughts on adoption?
Don't freak out.
Hello.
Well, I found a picture of one of your people.
How do I get it to you?
Twitter would be the best way if you're trying to show something.
The nearest did what Killmonger wanted for Wakanda.
That's actually true.
It's not even.
Yeah, I mean, Killmonger might not have killed as many, but hey.
Nice to have a live Efap at work and it's educational.
Also, high special guest Shad and Rags.
Yeah, Rags.
Hello, always glad to be a guest on Efap.
The most requested guest.
Millions of voices cried out in terror on social media.
I guess season eight, episode five is another crap show.
Absolutely.
Question for Shad.
How accurate slash practical is the armor in Skyrim?
Huh?
Obviously Shad isn't here to answer that, but how accurate slash practical is the armor in Skyrim?
Which one?
Yeah, I already answered that.
Fortunately, I vote old boy fight.
Oh yeah, we did.
We did get to play that.
Sword play critique.
Nothing escapes Efap's gaze.
Yep, you never know with this sort of thing.
Would any of you rail Captain Marvel in the throat?
No.
No.
There we go.
Daenerys quicksaved before beating everybody.
I actually saw that meme on Free Folk and if only, mate.
If only.
The Chad impractical stance versus the virgin cucklord technique.
Not even sure.
That might have been referencing Troy.
I'm not sure which.
Achilles had lice.
That's why he scratched his head.
Oh, I see.
Yeah, it was a part of the plot that I failed to mention.
That's my bad.
Still going.
Absolute mad lads.
If you're referring to the stream as a whole, then it's mad lads.
Considering what we normally do, but I mean, three hours, me and Rags are normal.
Three hours normal.
Wouldn't they be using steel swords at this point?
In reference to the Greek era, I have no idea.
I am afraid.
I think Google might be able to answer that.
This is positive, informative, and educational.
What the expletive?
This isn't the toxic hate mongering.
I neglect my adopted kids to watch.
I'll try spitting.
That's a good trick.
Oh, yes.
I don't like my adopted saddled look.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, Rags.
You're gonna have to watch the newest effects.
There's so many new memes.
We come with total totally.
Well, I haven't been around the Internet for like four days now.
So I got some catching up.
Yeah, you got a few years to catch up.
How long was it?
I want to say five hours, maybe six.
Oh, that's nothing.
I'll knock that out.
Oh, yes.
The things they call dragons are actually Wyverns.
Yeah, I wish Wolf was here.
He gets really pissed when people try and distinguish between dragons and Wyverns.
I think the difference is when the arms are attached to the wings or separate.
When they're attached, their Wyverns.
Yeah, everyone knows that.
I think someone in chat can be like, no, Mauler.
What actually?
And I'll be like, okay, I'm sorry.
Consult chat to know the difference between a dragon and a Wyvern.
Bron versus Veil Knight.
Surgical technologist here.
Arteries don't pump that fast.
Oh, there you go.
There you go.
Uh, look for the last kingdom dual scenes and BOTN.
BOTN, which I reckon that is.
Bitch on the neighbors.
Sometimes the neighbors are loud.
The dog poos in your garden and they're up all night.
So you got a bitch on the neighbors.
I think you need a blade of the night.
That's a Kool-Aid of the night.
Yeah, you mean like shaving really late?
Yeah, and exactly that.
That was what I was referring to.
Sometimes you wake up.
It's three in the morning.
You need a clean shave.
You don't like to feel the scratch against your pillow when you're sleeping, you know,
from your little your scruff.
Game of Thrones swapped out Ryan Johnson for Michael Bay this episode.
I had a series of profanities written out, but YouTube wouldn't let me spend it.
I am so sorry.
Even Jeremy Johns turned on Game of Thrones this episode.
I'm actually like hyped to see this now.
A lot of people are saying this is evidence that it's all over.
We can watch it once we're done.
Oh, yeah, we're nearly check it out there.
Oh, shit, I called Nefab live.
Well, whoa.
Oh, wow.
The Super Chats thing just fucking cut out for me.
Oh, there we go.
It's back.
Terrifying.
Oh, shit, I called Nefab live.
Well, here goes the next 13 hours of my life.
13.
That's ridiculous.
We'd never go for 13.
Poland can Poland can into saber fights.
All right.
Yeah, boy.
Opinions on chainsword slash axis.
Chainsword.
Well, a chainsword seems.
Oh, man, I don't know.
I feel like using a like you like in like from Warhammer, I'm guessing.
Well, I don't know.
You can't really slash with it because the whole point of each with a chainsaw,
you have to hold and apply pressure to something if you want to cut through it.
And the person at the other end might not let you do that.
And it might all the little sinews and guts and fleshy bits could get caught up in the chain.
I think it's like it's a fun idea, but I don't think in reality it would work.
And you and you'd have all that weight for the motor to run.
And that weight wouldn't be part of the cutting end.
It would be like near the hilt at the bottom and the chain would have to.
I don't know.
It just doesn't.
I just don't think it'd work.
I have no idea.
It's not even entirely sure of what the weapon would be.
Watch the duel from Alice.
All that Trist deal wielding.
What that is.
But maybe next time have you guys seen Star Wars SC 38 reimagined?
I have very cool, though.
I don't know if it fits in with a new hope very well, considering that film was much more.
I want to say arm and dry, but not in a bad way.
Well, this was very flashy.
And I feel like if you were to actually try and slot it into the film, it might seem a
little bit jarring.
But I guess, you know, that's the point is they're trying very hard to make it slot in.
So very impressive.
Special effects wise and very cool.
I recommend everyone check it out.
Star Wars SC 38 reimagined.
YouTube.
It was awesome.
It was awesome to see Chad on an early morning education.
He felt this will be the educational.
He felt, I guess, a shadow video about misconceptions of medieval castles.
And life was great.
YouTube is flooded with awful history videos, which needs to be criticized.
Really listen.
If you ever see, if half teaches one many things.
And to that list, we will add if you ever find yourself in a sword fight,
you will be able to draw upon your knowledge to armor yourself and arm yourself properly to
give you the greatest chance of survival.
Just another one of the many, many services that he fat provides free of charge.
It's all of our very true.
We live in a world where sword fights can break out at any moment.
Be ready.
There's for shad.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
I don't I don't know what bad things come up with shad.
Maybe I'm too naive.
Did I miss shad screaming, meticulous or meticulous?
And I'm afraid we didn't get to talk about that this time around.
But there'll always be opportunities next time.
Any chance you guys are going to have Louis la vie Louis la vie?
Is it Louis Laveau?
Yeah, he's kind of on the list, I think.
Yeah, he's definitely a potential.
We've got a got a couple to sort of slot in where we can.
But yeah, definitely in the future.
HBO is coming to film the nevers at my house.
Wonderful.
I have no idea what that is.
But hopefully that works out.
You guys have ruined the word.
You guys have ruined the word massive for me.
The other day, somebody at work described something as massive
and I started laughing in front of everyone.
The best inside joke ever.
A bill hook is a pole arm that looks like a
fliddily and has a spike on the right end instead of another blade.
Fair enough.
I've sent you the picture on Twitter as a reply to the Zionist.
I'm probably not going to look at Twitter until after this stream.
Next is I've got a shit ton of notifications that just kind of it like seems to fuck with
my ability to like see the live dashboard.
So I don't know, but I will check it out.
Trying to figure out what's more painful.
See my last relationship of nearly two years slowly fade away before my eye
and feeling powerless to do anything about it or season eight of this show.
Gotta be season eight of this show.
That's that's where the real pain is.
Be warned rags.
They do a lot of slow note, total, slow, total,
slow, don't as we started calling him in episode 34.
Oh God.
Yeah, I guess we already.
Yeah, we call the slow vision, slow to the up to vision.
I think it was like speedled or something.
And then there's a couple of other alter egos as well.
So you have that to look forward to.
Donald slow and go.
Donald.
Oh, I think.
Yeah, that could have worked slow.
I was there.
If I was there, you'd have all this stuff.
Yep.
What happens when I'm not around?
All right.
So are you in the wash together?
No.
Yeah, I was going to say if we want to check out.
Mr. Jeremy Johns' take on Game of Thrones.
I don't know if.
Let's do it.
Will I need to pause this every year so often for the copyright or?
I doubt for Jeremy Johns.
I'd hope not.
Jeremy, if you ever see that we're covering you,
we're doing this just to see what you think.
Okay.
Fair use.
People have bitched a lot about this show this season.
I haven't because I've been like the hopeful optimist.
Like I don't think there are enough episodes to stick the landing,
but I'm going to hope they pull it off.
Now there's today.
Also, spoiler warning.
I'm going to give you that spoiler warning because
I'm going to straight up spoil this episode for you.
You've been warned.
Before we get started this episode,
like all episodes of Game of Thrones season eight
that I'm talking about here on my YouTube channel
are brought to you by the Stardust app.
The Stardust app.
I don't.
Sorry, Jeremy.
That hair is the most unfuckable thing I've ever seen.
Hey man, it's his style.
All right.
I don't watch Jeremy Johns.
So I wow.
Man.
No, don't.
Yeah, I don't.
It seems very cartoony.
Let you react.
Yeah, it does.
Movies, trailers, TV shows for 30 seconds at a time.
Follow me at Jeremy Johns.
Get your voice out there.
Also, for those of you who followed me at Jeremy Johns,
tag me in your Game of Thrones post.
I have another winner to announce.
A winner for them and a friend.
All right.
All right.
Get on with it.
All right.
Fly down to Los Angeles, California for the Game of Thrones
series finale party.
Hoping they stick the landing to this thing.
Bye.
We'll talk about that more.
I'll tell you who the winner is at the end of this video.
First, got to talk about the episode.
Okay.
Until now, like you can say what you want about the battle
and it was poorly lit.
I watched Game of Thrones at night with no lights on,
so it didn't bother me.
Point is they hadn't violated any characters this season.
Oh, that's an interesting statement there, Jeremy.
But okay.
I'll let it go.
You haven't violated any characters.
Sure.
Until this point.
Yeah.
The writing this season had been weaker than others.
The writing, actually, everything after season four
had been weaker.
Like this is why-
There's a lot of Jeremy's.
Jeremy is the quartering, right?
As well as Geeks and Gamers and Jeremy Johns.
If you have a child chat, which you won't,
but if you ever do, don't name him Jeremy.
That would be a massive thing to do.
One through four, like masterful.
Anything after season four, it's like fine and entertaining,
but it's not seasons one through four.
But really, it's today made me go,
oh, internet was right.
Really, there are three things that-
It's interesting how it takes something different
for everybody to like sort of switch teams.
Like the logic of the battle,
that doesn't work on so many viewers in terms of like,
I don't care.
Logic of the battle, I don't care.
The character not achieving something
that was clearly set up in their arc,
even some people be like, I don't care about that.
And then the Deus Ex sort of marking their appearances
of like different characters teleporting around.
It's like, again, they don't care about that.
Yeah, okay.
But what seems to have definitely gotten Jeremy in particular
is what they did with Daenerys,
which I gave you a crash course in,
so you know what he's talking about.
Yeah, stand out.
So I'm just going to stick to them for this video.
First of all, before we get into it,
we were told this was going to be a big battle.
It's not a big battle.
It's a massacre.
Part of the problem.
But first of all, the problem.
Problem that had been building for a while
is the fact that Tyrion's a moron now.
I'm surprised you said that this is like a,
this is a now thing.
He's been a moron since season like five, I think.
But yeah, he's right.
Lannister, the intellect, the brain, the cunning,
the tactician, the coolest one in the show by far.
Now he's like this supporting character
that sometimes might be smart.
Other times, Varys is smarter than him.
Most obviously now he is.
Really, I feel like Varys and Tyrion, like the rules.
I mean, Varys is dead,
so Tyrion's definitely smarter than him.
Should have been swapped.
See right now, Varys is like,
Daenerys is not good for the realm.
Tyrion's like, I have to hope
because hope against logic.
That's how I've always operated.
I guess, I don't know why,
I don't know why he's like that right now.
But the role should have been.
Yeah, the only explanation for it
is that Daenerys was nice to Tyrion.
He's in sex, she was very nice to him.
Oh.
Like, okay.
Reverse, it should have been Varys being like,
I feel like she's good for the realm.
Everything I do is for the realm.
Tyrion should have been like,
I've been around power hungry people all my life,
and she is it.
That would have made more sense,
but not because Varys basically tells Tyrion,
not her.
And Tyrion snitches,
and then Varys gets murdered.
Oh, dude, it is so bad.
We talked about it on the stream, right?
So, the idea is you've got Daenerys
is going kind of insane,
and Varys tells Tyrion
he's probably going to do something.
Not sure what it is,
going to do something.
He says like, I can't stand idly by
and allow blah, blah, blah.
And Tyrion's like,
probably shouldn't.
And Daenerys,
the reason that happened
is because Jon found out
that he's a conflict to the throne.
He told his sister,
who told Tyrion,
who told Varys.
That's how Varys knows,
and that's why he's like,
doing this sort of thing.
And so Tyrion walks up to Daenerys,
and she's like,
someone has betrayed me.
And then Tyrion's like,
yep,
because he's about to tell her it's Varys.
And she goes,
Jon.
And Tyrion's reaction is so,
he's supposed to be the most
intelligent person on this show,
pretty much.
And his reaction is,
no, Varys.
It's the most like,
why would you just say that?
Why would you just tell her
that it's like,
you wouldn't hear her out first?
She's like,
you just fucking sold your friend
down the river hardcore,
just because you were like,
oh, we had different names in our head.
That's weird.
Mine was Varys.
Yours was Jon.
How about that?
What do you know?
Oh well.
Weird.
I guess we weren't thinking
of the same person.
Yeah.
Oh, never forget what I just said.
Down by the dragon.
Snitches gets stitches, Tyrion.
Yeah, it was a real,
real shame too,
to see Tyrion do it.
It was just like,
oh.
What's next,
Jaime Lannister.
This shit was stupid too.
In last week's episode,
Jaime Lannister.
Yeah, his character's done.
I can't see people
being happy with Jaime.
Hooks up with Brienne of Tarth,
had been building for a while.
Then he's like,
Cersei's hateful.
So am I.
I need to go back to her.
But I was like,
no, no, no.
He's just,
he's lying.
He's saying that to push her away.
So Brienne of Tarth will be cool for him to go.
And then he's going to go there
and be like,
oh, Cersei.
And then he's going to betray her somehow.
He's going to be like the Trojans.
Yes.
Everyone thought that Jaime
was going to go kill Cersei.
That's why he was heading back to her.
Just for context rags.
It's just like,
he's gotten over it
throughout the whole show.
That's been his like arc.
He's gone from a selfish man
to being a good one.
And so last episode,
he was like,
I'm going back to her.
And so everyone was like,
ah, ah, ah,
he's going to kill her.
But he literally goes back
to be with her
and dies with her.
And so it was like,
oh,
and so now everyone's just left.
Like, wait,
so Jaime's just,
Jaime's just old Jaime.
He dies irrelevant of his development.
Like, oh,
no, he just,
he just went back on everything.
Jaime Lannister's what?
Seven season arc
just came to a screeching halt
because he was like,
you know what?
I don't want to grow anymore.
I want to revert back
and I'm going to crawl back
to her arms.
Stupid.
Like they could have just kept him
in Winterfell
and he could have been like,
all right,
I'm just going to end up
with Brienne of Tarth.
I'm just going to give up
this whole war.
But no,
he doesn't hit it
and quit it scenario
with Brienne of Tarth
goes right back to Cersei,
tries to help her escape.
And then the walls,
like the ceiling caves in
and they both just get killed
embracing each other.
You can tell he's so done.
Like I said about it,
requires a different amount
of things for everybody.
It looks like this
was his breaking point.
Violation of his character arc
right there.
That's just that's dumb.
I get that you want to be shocking
because Game of Thrones
has always been shocking.
Like the unexpected happens,
but it's also laced in good writing.
At least the George RR Martin shit was.
Red Wedding.
Shocking.
No one saw it coming,
but everything was still
within character.
Jamie Lannister
just being like,
yeah, fuck it.
I'm going to go back
with my dick sister.
Doesn't make sense to me.
That's shocking
for the sake of shocking,
not shocking,
but with good writings.
Everyone's genuinely shocked.
It's like Jamie Lannister
stabbed the Mad King in the back
and the writers of the show
stabbed Jamie Lannister in the back.
The writers are
the King Slayer slayer dumb.
Then there's the other thing
where Daenerys is,
she's just a villain now.
At the point King's Landing
is ringing the bell
and everyone's like,
all right,
there's a man.
It's once they surrender
that she chooses
to murder the ball.
She's not majoring them
up to that point.
You're like,
why did you do it once they surrender?
You horrible person.
What an uber dick.
Like, wow.
The fights over.
You've won.
Daenerys is on a dragon like,
I don't think so.
I think we need to roast more people.
She doesn't go for Cersei Lannister,
which she could have just done.
She starts cooking
all the civilians.
She just literally like doesn't even
go after the soldiers.
It's like specifically
the innocent people.
It's like, okay.
I'm trying to destroy
their infrastructure.
Firebombing everybody.
Not the queen who gave the order
to cut her friend's head off.
Not the super zombie
who swung the sword
to cut her friend's head off.
But just civilians,
men, women, children,
people trying to make a living,
kids trying to play.
Ash.
There's a character turning heel.
Then there's that.
At this point,
she might as well have been cut
from Theon Greyjoy himself
because she is a fucking dick.
I don't get it.
I just don't get the execution.
Like I've said in my videos
about Game of Thrones
season eight,
Ella Daenerys is losing
as she's starting to become
throne hungry and I meant it,
but I thought she would be
a little drunk on power.
Maybe she was putting her ego first.
Go above the people
and she's unfit to lead
and Jon Snow has to step in.
Yeah, like I said,
what you what you should be doing
is she kills a couple people
in a morally gray sort of situation.
We're like,
I don't know people questioning
her decisions.
Not.
Yeah, she's just not evil.
Yeah, she's a villain.
Now you need evil.
She's bad.
Now she's killed the younglings.
Now we've crossed the bridge.
Not going back from this.
Destroy the bridge after she crossed
your ego above the people
and someone who's
straight up just massacres
a bunch of innocents burning them
to death with a dragon.
Like that's a line.
They're making her character cross
and that's a leap
that we have to take to buy it
and given where she's been,
I can't make the leap
that she would cross that line.
So I'm I call bullshit on it.
Like I'll give the show this
Daenerys Targaryen's been a bit hardcore
in some of her punishments.
Yeah, but even then I can't recall
her showing blatant disregard
for the lives of innocents and children.
Not just disregard like making
an active effort to slaughter them.
That's still a line to be crossed.
I love makes it so true.
An active effort to slaughter children.
Why?
No, no, no, it's fine.
And now out of nowhere,
she just crosses it
and now she's worse than Cersei ever was.
Cersei in the entirety of the eight seasons
has never killed as many innocent people
as Daenerys did in this one episode.
She just has to die now.
That's a lot of innocent people.
She slaughtered subtlety people.
That's what made the show great.
Subtlety new.
Oh yeah, we mentioned that the stream.
So a lot of people have been naming
their kid Khaleesi and Daenerys
because of this character.
Awkward to say the least.
Awkward.
Now it's just someone who's good going
nah fuck civilians.
Burn a problem.
It's not just her.
Like her entire army
just started slaughtering people
after there was a surrender.
Just Grey Worm?
I liked Grey Worm.
He just lost his girlfriend.
No, he's just slaughtering people.
He would swear Daenerys and her entire army
at that standstill moment
just heard a voice in their heads
of Emperor Palpatine being like,
execute, oh darn it.
Everyone just fucking snapped
and started slaughtering them.
Everyone just snapped.
Dragons breathe the fire on everybody.
It's the only thing that makes sense.
And since that didn't happen,
it's just the writer.
Just not enough episodes, man.
Characters have just kind of been fucked.
And see, like,
when you get Jeremy Johns saying
that you fucked it up,
like, I feel like this is,
you've just well-breached.
You get, like, the people
who are focusing on the details.
Then the people who are focusing
on the bigger picture.
There's still some details.
Then the people who are only
considering the bigger picture.
Then the people who consume this
so casually they might even forget
the previous episode.
And all of these factions are all like,
nah, this is terrible.
Like, what have you done?
Let's see what happens.
But man, a lot of you saw this
coming a mile away.
I was like, maybe,
but they're not gonna
violate characters entirely.
And that's how I see this went down.
I feel like Game of Thrones
is slowly getting everyone
on the same page.
We're just like, no, no,
this isn't gonna end smoothly.
So, anyhow, those are my thoughts.
Maybe you agree,
maybe you don't,
but that's my review.
However, I did promise
that I was gonna announce a winner.
Yeah, that's pretty entertaining.
And, uh...
Yeah, I like that.
Um, he's right.
Yeah, I'll probably be putting out a video
that, uh, is attempting
to send the same message.
But obviously, I'll be doing it
in my own style and length.
And yeah, I don't know
what I'm gonna do about episode four
because I really kind of wish now
that I had made an episode for it
because I just thought that
it wasn't gonna be as bad
as three ever again.
Thought that was gonna be like a...
How naive I was, right?
Oh, Mauler.
Will you never learn?
Will I never learn?
It can always get worse.
Uh, yeah, the last few Super Chats,
I'll just get them sorted out.
Uh, Braggs.
You're like, Mauler,
but who is the winner?
Braggs needs a sword
to protect his home and family
in case Uncle Joe steals
all his guns in 2021.
No, I legit, but this sword,
they, it's gonna be about nine months
because they have to make them.
They come like paper sharp and everything.
I got hooked up with people
who make good scabbards for them.
Oh, dude, it's gonna be fucking sweet.
Can I have a sword and everything?
I bought the land graph.
Oh, what a sword.
What a sword.
Did I make a rose video
for two episodes at once?
Fucking do it!
I could do that.
Can you really trust a guy
with that haircut?
He seems like the kind of guy
that's perfectly fine with adoption.
Um, I bet he adopted that haircut.
Well, let's see the next,
see which I was,
he's definitely adopted.
Yeah, I think so.
Shadman is a hentai artist.
Oh, that would, there we go.
I hope Thai fans and writers
now realize they don't have a leg
to stand on criticizing
how Tywin took King's Landing
or Walder Frey at the Red Wedding.
Um, this is the thing.
The way that Tywin and Walder
had victories were oftentimes
with these as little amount
of people killed as possible,
but achieving the ultimate goal
of them taking power.
Well, with Daenerys,
it just seemed malicious.
She was just like,
I've won, now time to kill
all the innocent people.
And you're like, oh.
But yeah, I might do
episode four and five in one.
Fuck it.
That sounds like a possible good idea.
Um, I burned them.
I burned them all.
They're dead.
Every single one of them
and not just the men,
but the women and the children too.
I love you, John.
Yep.
I love you, John.
2,323 people watching on any 631 likes.
Pathetic.
Come on, guys.
Hey, everybody, you know,
maybe they didn't like it.
Maybe they didn't dislike it.
Hey, everybody, don't forget
to smash that like button.
No, you have to say,
say something more interesting
than that.
So like,
oh, don't forget to get
rid of that pesky ad block.
That's the one you need to
don't forget to get rid of that
pesky writing.
Three hours.
Uh, we're all getting a refund, right?
You had an efap just days ago
and a bonus two wolf streams with me.
This is the thing I was going to say.
You're going to be getting
a decent gap now for efap
so that I can work on some videos
and that we can just have a recovery.
You know, how you guys not efapped out.
Surely that happens eventually.
But either way, that actually puts us to
essentially the end of the stream.
We will totally be looking
for the next efap when it happens.
I'll just do it.
We'll check out any memes that I've missed
or as many as I have managed
to consolidate into a single thing.
I hope you guys had a lot of fun.
Really appreciate all of the
very kind donations and yes,
I'm going to be starting work
on a Game of Thrones rage
more than likely episode four
and five put together.
Ready for then episode six.
Who knows what's going to happen with that
and then I might work on something of a
eight overall thing.
I don't know yet.
We'll see.
Either way, thank you all
very much for watching.
I hope you enjoyed.
This will be up on Moolah
in hours from now.
Hopefully, if not the next day.
And yeah, we'll see you next time.
Goodbye.
Goodbye.
Why don't you make a rage
on the whole season?
I probably will,
but I kind of want to split them up now
because I have such individual rage
between singular episodes.
Anyway, goodbye.
One video is not enough.
Goodbye.
