It's going to be interesting because this is completely out of nowhere.
I don't think anybody's actually been told this is even happening.
This is Efap 4 in dog years.
That's your opinion.
Yes it is.
Yeah, I was really annoyed because I was actually coming along with the Captain Marvel video.
I was like, yeah, I'm trucking.
I can get this done in a couple of days now.
And then I talked to Fringy for like a couple of hours and the entire thing, because I
think it needs to be reworked to fit in a whole bunch of new fucking criticisms.
Though I will say, watching a lot of reviews of it, a lot of people are getting shit wrong
that just isn't a thing.
The Tesseract is in the movie.
I'm not going to specify how and why, but people are like, that ruins the continuity.
The Tesseract is supposed to be with Howard Stark.
And it's like, go back to him by the end.
How many years between Captain America 1 and Avengers?
That's how long the Tesseract has to get back to the field, and they show it happened in
the movie.
So fine, calm down.
But there are continuity.
Like if someone complained about the eye thing, I'm like, yeah, you complain about that, go.
Everyone should complain about that.
Complain about the eye.
The eye.
That's no sub.
The eye.
The first day, hey, mauler, loved your Aquaman video.
I didn't even get bored my third time, almost as good as your Fallout 76 video.
Yeah, it's pretty great.
By the way, yeah, sorry, I forgot Rags.
I remember that when Wolf mentioned that I had seen Fallout six times in the theater,
you yelled out, was he ever bored?
And the answer is no.
I was double never bored, actually, yeah, just do the math, you know, six times, never
bored.
Like if you were to write a review of something saying that you'd seen it three times and
you were never bored, is there anything more glowing than that?
I honestly can't think that would be better.
Maybe I never fell asleep, but that's that's kind of the same thing, I guess.
Like if a movie is still not boring for that one guy on the third watch, like, Jesus, everybody
should be seeing it.
It was a movie four out of five that actually reminds me of like the the atmosphere surrounding
the last Jedi when it first came out.
There was there was this thing of like, shouldn't really be reviewing it if you haven't seen
it at least twice, because it was like, you need to understand that the movie does change
on your second watch through.
And I'd be like, yeah, I guess they're right, because, you know, Luke throwing the lightsaber
stuff like that doesn't make any sense until you've seen the entire film.
So that seems broken until you watch it for a second time.
It's like, okay, cool.
I think now it all makes sense.
And therefore is good.
Oh, that works.
Someone in chat said, why is Chris Stuckman here?
Oh, we're live Chris Stuckman here.
Wait, are they referring to me?
I think so.
Oh, shit.
I doubt they're referring to the dog, the plated wolf picture, the gas mask.
Oh, someone apparently watched your video as well recently.
Yes, a couple of them are either watching it now or just watched it.
And I didn't want to give away the surprise that was coming on here.
Well, there you go.
Those look like Chris Stuckman.
It does.
It does.
Kinda.
Yeah.
Which isn't a bad thing, by the way, you know.
Yeah, just as long as you're more interesting than Chris Stuckman, which isn't a very difficult
thing to achieve.
As long as you don't create a review of Hill House this full fucking minutes long, I will
respect you.
Jesus, no way.
I tell that to Zod Snap now.
Oh, my God.
No fucking way.
It's so low fucking effort.
I want to talk about this series for four minutes and Jesus Christ.
It's so low effort.
It doesn't signal boost the show because he doesn't argue why you should really see it
other than it's really good.
Just trust.
It's really good.
Just watch it.
Like.
Oh, yeah.
He called it a review.
I was just like, Come on, Chris, make it hard to like, you know, I may as well ask this
as well before we get started.
We've got a running thing of who will be the most inconsistent character of episode nine.
I don't know.
Well, actually, Ren, how do you feel about episode eight?
I don't care.
Okay.
Like Star Wars is fine.
The Last Jedi was not not good.
I mean, you know, I didn't grow up with Star Wars, but Star Wars isn't a big part of my
life.
Like I think it is for you guys.
You know, I've been a passive watcher of it, and that's basically it.
So well, you know, you seem to have some care for plot and stuff.
Like how did you find the movies?
Did you call it plot?
I think you could.
It was a bit wonky, I think.
Well, I mean, you've covered Last Jedi to death.
I don't know if, you know, I'll be retreading old ground here.
Oh, well, you know, it's always interesting to see what someone else thinks in different
words here and there.
But yeah, we probably have.
I mean, I only saw it the one time in the theater and I've only seen reviews of it after.
And I have no emotional attachment to any of the characters or anything like that.
So mostly forgettable, emotional attachment to the film.
So yeah, I remember the little Asian girl kissing, what's his name, Finn?
Yeah.
That was that was a good time.
It was a little harassment.
We didn't even ask his hashtag R2 me too.
Me too.
I thought I thought she was a lesbian the whole time.
I thought her sister in the beginning was her girlfriend.
Oh, because I because, you know, there's that whole push that people talk about where Kathleen
Kennedy wants more.
What's the word?
What is this?
Sure.
Let's be it.
You know, so I thought they were going to make her lesbian because they hadn't had any
Asians in Star Wars.
And there's that clip of JJ Abrams saying we love Asians or something at a convention.
Yeah, like some kids said, is there going to be more Asian representation going forward
in Star Wars?
And JJ said something like, all I know is we love the Asian community or something.
Oh, right.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And what represents him better than lesbians?
Like, I feel like that would be up to representation.
Well, either way, you guessed and whenever I remember to do this, I actually do it.
So what was it didn't Fringy choose to be asked him, I forget.
I think he did mention it.
I don't remember what his choice was.
I was thin, I think I remember.
So I guess whether or not you care, it'll just be interesting to sort of throw on a
bet.
We're guessing who's going to be the character that gets fucked over the most in terms of
inconsistent writing.
So I lo is out because he's the obvious choice and so is Lando because they can't seem to
actually take an original trilogy character without destroying them in every way, shape
and form.
So your choices are basically everyone else.
Who do you think is probably going to get the worst right?
Basically the question.
Well, the joke answer is Princess Leia, but I don't know.
She'll be alive when dead, like they'll be pretty consistent.
Like her death happens off camera.
I don't think they're going to kill her.
I think that we'll probably survive the movie and then we never see her.
Oh, she'll just drive off in a spaceship like in the Fast and Furious, fly off.
Now you remember Paul Walker driving away, all right, that beautiful scene.
It'll be just like that.
But she'll assume the car, though, she flew away, CGI Leia, flying away into the sunset.
Does that mean you vote for Leia?
We haven't actually had anyone vote for Leia.
No, I'm going to go for a little a little twist and say Luke Skywalker.
I think they're going to bring him back to we got two other people going for that.
You're not special.
No.
Yeah.
No, that's fair enough.
And JJ is going to try and salvage what Orion did to him.
Yeah, I think it will.
But I think people would like to see Luke not done the way he was done.
Yeah, that's a bad way to send him off.
Yeah.
And oh, yeah, I may as well.
So you are Ren's reviews.
You're going to go by Ren, I assume.
And South Pole.
Do you want to go buy something specifically or you can call me Southpaw, you can call
me South.
I don't really care.
It's fine.
I prefer Southpaw, I guess.
In that case, it's only two syllables that we'll probably manage.
Yeah.
I don't know.
That's one whole extra syllable then.
Oh, wait.
More.
Fuck.
It's still more than more.
So, yeah, what would you like to throw your vote in on?
Honestly, BB-8 is actually a pretty viable choice.
He goes from being like a like a McGuffin slash like little sidekick character in the
Force Awakens to insanely overpowered warrior in The Last Jedi who can like hijack an AT-ST
and kill people.
Shoot them with coins.
Shoot coins out of his, yeah.
He's spectrum tech and combat, yeah.
Yeah.
So and then if he goes back to being just a regular sidekick and gets nerfed in episode
nine, then I would say that that's an inconsistency right there.
But I guess that's more of a joke answer.
I think that'd be my answer would probably go to Poe.
Oh, all right.
Yeah.
Poe and Finn are locked right now for all votes each.
Yeah.
He doesn't have much of a character in The Force Awakens, but like what little character
he has is kind of inconsistent with The Last Jedi as it is already.
So it's just, I just don't think there's really anything that they can do with the character.
Enough.
Go ahead.
I mean, I don't know how long people want to hear Star Wars be talked about, but I just
always thought it was so odd right from the get go years ago when they announced they
were doing the trilogy that they were going to have each movie be done by a different
director.
And is there any case of another trilogy that was done by three different people and also
written by three different people?
I mean, the OT is probably what they were working with for three different directors,
but George Lucas was involved with all three of them, which you would argue is yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
But I mean, the reason they said they did that is so that they could get the movies
out faster, if I remember correctly.
And to me, that was the first red flag.
And I just think it's interesting where we are now.
Oh yeah.
I mean, pretty much everybody now just looks back and say, what the fuck did you decide
to do this?
And then they're like, it made sense at the time.
Shut up.
I don't know why they wanted to rush a franchise that basically just leaks money wherever
it goes.
Or in a good way.
I mean, um, I guess we'll make them good, but no, that was a window for preferences.
Um, anyway, yeah, so I should probably say that the previous eFap was all about Mission
Impossible Fallout.
And today's guests are both related to that first, being Ren's reviews, who is the guy
we actually covered for anybody in chat who doesn't realize he's happily come on.
And we're probably just going to talk about the bit of the coverage on this, the movie
itself.
Um, so hello there.
How do you do?
Hello.
And, uh, Southpaw, who was very helpful in chat in the previous stream with, uh, basically
just fact checking the, the movie where we were, uh, stumbling.
And so it'll make for plenty of conversation between the two of them.
But, uh, yeah, it's a nice little, I'd say precedent now, or at least pattern that we
actually managed to get the people on who, uh, we're covering so that there's, I dunno,
not an element of, wow, you guys are bullies sort of thing, which does happen every once
in a while.
But I mean, not intended.
We're supposed to just trying to have fun and have discussions.
And obviously when you're riffing with friends, uh, it can, it can come across.
We could prioritize our fun.
Yeah.
We don't care about anyone else's.
Is that so wrong?
I'm glad everyone's silence.
So the sort of angle I'm going to, uh, start with will probably be related to that, but
I'm just going to get a few things out of the way.
Um, I figure Wolf's going to want to address this cause, uh, he, he recently saw the movie
again, but, um, there was a few top comments in the previous video.
One of them was Wolf didn't like Alita because he wasn't paying attention.
Wolf, do you have anything to say about this?
Yeah.
Well, I responded to that because after I saw it, it kind of irritated me.
So I went and watched it again because I was going to watch it again anyway.
I may as well, since it's probably not going to be much longer.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
So, since apparently I need to make this clear because I guess I didn't beforehand, I don't
despise Alita.
Like people seem to think I do, even though I've outright said that I don't, uh, I find
it disappointing.
And I said that it could have benefited from like an extra hour or so because there was
definitely something there that they could have worked with.
But I watched the movie and of all the criticisms that I got, I got one thing wrong because
I hadn't seen it a month, well, I had seen it a month prior and I just forgot the one
line in the two hour movie that explained it and I was like, okay, so that explains
it.
But all the other things I didn't get explained.
And so I asked the person who commented that, like all the questions I had that still were
not answered by the movie and the answers I got were either admissions that the answers
are not in the film, uh, one question, question, one answer was, well, why do you care about
the bad guys' motivations?
And it's like, I don't know.
I just kind of want to know why the bad guys, the bad guy is all.
And then I got like a Patrick Willems style refutation I can't remember off the top of
my head what it was.
Yeah.
Well, we'll just summarize it as I didn't get a single good response with anything of
substance.
But I want to I, I still want to make a video on it, but I really want to read the elite
of manga before I do that.
So I don't despise the movie.
I think it could have been good.
There's definitely a lot of potential for it to be good.
But for the most part, it's just the world building is the biggest downfall of that film.
And I want to make a video about how the world building could have been done better.
It's not going to be like an Aquaman style shitting on the whole movie because I don't
hate it that much.
It's only mild acting you wolf.
Are you?
Oh my God.
I watched that today for being a fanatical did I went back and I watched the anime movie.
Oh God.
Okay.
The best factually, the best Hollywood anime adaptation, well, it's not really an anime.
We'll go with manga because that's what it was is Edge of Tomorrow still has some issues,
but it's objectively the best.
That's true.
Also I have actually talked to Jack Saint.
We are possibly going to have a debate.
Jack wants to talk with me first, which I think is perfectly reasonable.
So we might be doing that Sunday in private.
It's not going to be like a talk thing, but yeah, so but there is a good chance that we
will be having a debate together.
I can say beautiful about what objectivity.
He asked me to watch his video on objectivity and I did and I thought it would just be best
after watching it to just cover that video instead.
Just go point by point.
What problems I have with it and all that.
But yeah, he said he wants to talk with me first.
So I guess we're going to do that and then hopefully we can get a debate going between
us.
Just obviously a word of advice, record everything in case anything's used against you sort of
thing.
Yeah.
I mean, I know.
I don't expect a lot.
I mean, I don't think it's going to because he just made it seem like he just wants to
get like a kind of feel for like who I am kind of like, you know, how when we first
talked more.
Yeah, we didn't stream that.
So I don't have a problem with it.
I don't think there's going to be much, if anything, of like super substance that comes
out of it.
I don't have a problem with talking to him beforehand, so.
But yeah, in regards to the elite of shit, I don't hate the movie.
I don't think it's good, but I don't despise it like it's some horrible piece of shit.
I was going to read out one more comment in relation to this.
On the video as well, Wolf's argument about Alita feels very shallow.
They had already announced that there's going to be another movie, so they obviously save
some stuff.
It's like if I ever watched The Fellowship of the Ring, they started complaining about
things they didn't explain.
There's more content plus to explain quite a few things they mentioned, such as ignorance
on his part.
No, no, no, that is a fucking horrible.
He's not the only one I saw say that it's shallow, that I apparently care about the
world building.
I don't think people understand what surface level means if they think that me saying,
I want to know what the main character's motivations are, or I want to know what the villain's
motivations are.
That's not surface level, and if you think it is, then you need to read up on what surface
level actually means.
But you don't like it when characters just do things?
I don't like it when I don't know why the bad guy is bad and why he seems to be a pretty
stand up guy otherwise, and everyone else seems to be bad.
But then the main character who says, you are a bad person.
I want to kill you, and there's literally nothing that he does in the movie that's even
remotely villainous aside from possessing people to talk to other people, which he doesn't
do anything with.
I mean, it's fucking weird.
He doesn't even ask for consent?
Jesus.
Yeah, we can argue about how weird it is that he does that, but that's because the fucking
movie doesn't explain why he would do that rather than using like a hologram or something.
I don't honestly have that big of a problem with it.
If he wants to possess people, fine.
I just want like some justification for it.
More so just a justification of why the dude is evil, because the movie gives no examples
for it.
Yeah, but if people acted logically, there could be no movie.
Oh, God.
Oh, I hate that, Chris.
Oh, God.
I remember it now.
It was something to the effect of it would be three hours long if they explained everything.
And I was like, that is literally a Patrick Willems argument.
Yeah, I'm getting flashbacks of that one.
He got mad at me that I said that I compared him to Patrick Willems, and it's like, well,
don't make a Patrick Willems argument.
Yeah, don't say things that he says.
I mean, it first off, it's retarded that anyone actually thinks that no, it clearly does not
take three hours to explain what can be covered in like three sentences.
I'm actually going to once I read the manga, because I'm sure it's going to have an explanation
for a lot of the things that I didn't understand.
I want to be able to show how the manga does it.
And if it can't be done in the bounds of film, then I want to explain how it could be because
it absolutely could have explained these things.
But the movie didn't put any effort to do so.
And that's what my problem is.
It's not that it's some horrible piece of shit movie.
It's that it could have been really, really good.
But instead, they put zero effort into the world building.
If I could chime in, I went inside and I think I was like maybe five or 10 minutes late.
So I gave it a lot of leeway for that.
I'm assuming that you've seen the entire thing, though.
Yeah, I recently I think I saw it like two, maybe three days ago.
I'm supposed to see it again with my with my oldest brother.
He's visiting at the end of the month and he really wants to see it.
And so I'll I'll try to keep that in mind.
Yeah, I mean, it's when it comes out at some point, there's so much there that you could
have done so much with.
That's the thing is like I when I came out of it, I had more of a hateful reaction to
it.
But as I thought about it more, I was like, no, there's a lot of cool stuff in there.
And my second time going through, there was, you know, the doctor character, I think his
name is Dr. Edo.
My second time through, I actually liked him a lot, whereas the first time I didn't care
for him.
So there were some things my second time through that I appreciated a little bit more.
But it's just the world building was not good.
And I want to explain how it could have been done really well and what should have done
but didn't.
There we go for four minutes about why it's something.
Yeah.
But I still got to wait for the manga to come in because I want to read that before I make
the video.
I will say this for the movie, it may be interested in checking out the manga, like I'm not even
an anime or manga person in general, but the the world that it takes place in seems cool
enough.
It just they didn't really build on it very well.
I know my friend that I went to see it with and he also really didn't like the movie.
He's read some of the manga so far and he says that the manga is really good.
So I'm going under the assumption that it's really good because I respect his opinion.
So sure.
And that should probably do it for Elita because like it's just yeah, people getting flustered
about it.
And I think it's because Elita is commonly looked at as relatively good from what I'm
getting most people outside of Wolf, who takes a very different stance on it and people
are like, why don't you go see it?
And I'm like, because I'm not talking about Elita, I don't know anything about Elita busy
with Captain Marvel.
What was there?
We'll go see a real woman, a real hero.
Apparently if I say like two things that I had an issue with, that must mean everything
I have an issue with is a problem, even though I haven't made a video on it.
So people don't know most of my criticisms in the first place.
Kind of like, like, also, I guess I should say this by the Halo video I posted where
I said that the only reason people liked ODST was because Nathan Fillion was in it.
That was a joke, guys.
I know it's hard to to decipher this, but I didn't literally mean that Nathan Fillion
is the only reason people liked ODST.
I remember liking ODST.
I like ODST.
I like it, too.
I mean, I have criticisms of it just because Nathan Fillion was only because of Nathan Fillion.
Yeah, well, he was in Halo 5 and Halo 5 is a piece of garbage, so I thought that should
have been self-explanatory since I oh, wait, Nathan Fillion was in Destiny 2 as well.
And that was garbage.
Yeah, they killed him off.
They killed him off.
It's fine.
They killed him off.
Oh, that's.
Yeah, that was a joke, guys.
I, Fringey told me there were some people that were pissed off about it on Twitter.
So it's a joke.
It wasn't serious.
There we go.
There we go.
Jade just said ODST is good.
So is Reach.
Reach is overrated, I think.
There we go.
Reach was.
Reach was bad in a lot of ways.
I can't like say anything other than, yeah, I enjoyed him.
I'm a really, I'm a really big Halo fan.
So I really didn't like Reach because it really messed up the story.
The mechanics with Bloom and the armor.
Well, the armor abilities in general really were really shit.
That design was the only things I liked about it was the customization, theater
mode, Forge and the campaign's level design and enemies were pretty good in the
music. It's not like the game is shit.
We'll go the story.
Well, the story is not very good.
It makes a lot of retcons to the original Halo canon, which really pissed me off
playing it about.
Was it like diverse and representative and inclusive?
Well, there was a Hungarian dude and some other chick with an accent that was
really hard to understand.
So I guess so.
They did that on purpose.
She was disabled, wasn't she?
Very progressive.
Was she? Yeah, it doesn't make any fucking sense either since they're
kidnapped at birth and they should all not have fucking different accents.
And I'm not from six years old, but still is like two decades later.
They shouldn't have all those accents and speak all those different languages.
It's fucking stupid.
Your accents are genetic.
Yeah, if you don't know.
Yeah, you get words.
And they talked about that actually in a vidoc where they intentionally had the
actors speak in an accent that sounded familiar, but that you couldn't quite
place because of how far in the future it was.
People would probably have different accents.
That was like harder to have an accent.
Was that the big guy didn't have an accent.
That was the accent that we use.
I was going to say probably it will have accents.
Same with you had an accent.
You big it and a meal was just a black guy.
That's racialist.
Well, that's his character.
What I will say, though, is I still remember I kind of want to replay the game now
once the collection comes out, just to know if I if it's just because I played
it when it came out, but I still remember the is it the girl like getting shot
at one point when you're just running away and she was a terrible driver.
Yeah. Well, I don't know.
I just I was just highlighting that.
It's like I remember being like, shit, she's dead.
Wow. Like a shocking campaign moment.
But then I realized that like all the characters were invented to be killed.
So. Yeah, it's not exactly like it's not like they killed someone we know,
even though I don't fucking know the characters of Halo anyway outside of
Master Chef Chef, sorry.
He's got a Michelin star.
Oh, yeah, several.
But, yeah, so that's enough about Halo, Star Wars, Alita.
And well, I haven't really talked about Captain Marvel.
I might be the only one here who's seen Captain Marvel, by the way.
I saw it. Oh, I'm sorry.
I was just going to say for me, we're just curious.
Yes, the video is on the way, but it's going to take me a while.
I still need like another four or five days before I'd have a first draft
of the actual I still haven't I still haven't really like processed it
in front of your webcam for minutes.
I basically walked out of it.
I was like, yeah, that was a movie, I guess.
I mean, there were like there were some parts that I enjoyed, but I don't know.
I just felt kind of honestly, it wasn't a movie.
And it's just tricked you.
The greatest trick that movies pulled is convincing people it was mediocre.
It's it's not it's really bad.
But loads of people are coming out with reviews like, yeah, it's just OK.
It was fine.
And maybe it's going to be one of those things where it's like you're thinking
about it way too much to have pulled all these problems.
And I'm just like, I don't know, man, I care about the MCU.
But be right.
So I heard all sorts of crazy stuff, though.
I keep hearing this from a lot of different places about how
there are tons and tons of ticket sales,
like presales of people that never showed up
on an unprecedented level that people have never seen before.
Like entire theaters that are empty, hundreds and hundreds of tickets
and theaters of pre-ordered tickets that people didn't ever show up for.
I can't I can't really attest to that.
The theater that I went to see it in at like on opening night was full.
But then again, it's it's opening night.
Well, were they were they showing any other movie at the theater?
I mean, yeah, it was it was the AMC that I go to all the time.
They had Alita. They had our theater only had Captain Marvel.
It's the only movie that it has.
Oh, yeah. No, this this theater.
And a lot of things are apparently the same.
Well, the theater that the theater that I go to has like consistently about
like 12 or so movies playing at any given time.
Yeah, like being completely honest, the best turnout I've seen for every movie
I've seen since Infinity War has been it's just been really bad turnout.
Infinity War had a good turnout, but everything else like Jurassic Park,
Fallen Kingdom and Solo and all the rest I've seen.
They all just there's not many people there.
But Captain Marvel, yeah, my cinema was mostly stacked with people.
And I was kind of surprised.
I was like, why do people care? But OK. Yeah.
But I would still believe that they've been selling tickets to empty seats
or whatever. I don't know. That just sounds funny anyway.
Well, when you look at all the other stuff
surrounding this movie with all the reviews
and the algorithm changes on YouTube and all the shit that they pull
to make that to to build this thing up, it wouldn't surprise me at all that.
You know, they they bought some they bought some tickets
in order to push a ticket sales numbers and then, you know,
maybe swept that into the marketing budget. You know.
Disney's pretty scummy.
How dare you? They made Star Wars.
Yeah, they made it something.
They thought with it.
So anyway, I'm pretty much happy to move on to the no memes today
because we're sort of it's almost like a part two to the other one.
We did like two hours of memes in the last one.
You know what I mean?
So we're probably going to kick into the point of today,
which is going to be talking about in a sort of post
review from both sides way of Mission Impossible Fallout.
So hopefully you guys in chat still remember and care about the movie
because we still want to talk about it.
If you haven't seen it yet, go see it. It's really good.
Yeah, we totally took care of that.
But I feel like people still probably didn't even though we told them to
almost like a part two and the title is literally part two.
Yeah. So it's still almost like a part two
because it's not really a part two because we're talking about other things
to Jason, what Jason's full name is.
Either way, the first thing you should probably ask
then is Ren, did you check out our coverage and what was your reaction?
Well, I mean, five hours of coverage is an awful lot to ask.
But I think I'm
I think I saw about two hours total.
How did you how did it go?
It's it's fine.
It's just it's really, really tough to not be there.
I just wish I was there to
defend myself in the moment, you know, rather than come on later.
But I get that that's the format of the show.
Was also the I don't know, just be awkward, right?
Kind of like a trying to you watch video
make point counterpoint point counterpoint like we'd probably be there
for much, much longer when I would assume the idea for any video
that's made is that it's supposed to stand without commentary.
It shouldn't need a hand holding to go along with it.
Sure. But, you know, just as a living on
somebody who cares about my content and things like that.
It's it's not easy.
I mean, I wasn't
insulted or upset, but it was
because, you know, any anytime something goes wrong, I try to use it as a
an opportunity to improve and learn from your mistakes and get better.
So that's yeah, I guess.
Just just did you sort of
feel there wasn't a thing you'd missed or you
there was something that you said that I thought I'd missed, but
I don't think I did.
How are we just going to dive right in?
Well, we'll probably let Southport direct how they want to do this.
So I'll just say, like, we're going to jump into a Mission Impossible
floor without discussion now, I guess.
What I've got in the background is Ren's video.
The idea is to just if everybody leaves it on mute and I'll let it run in the
background, so there's a relevant visual.
And from there, you guys can pretty much discuss
it however you want with me, Wolf and Rags are probably just chime in where
and when we can or if we're referenced for some comment that was made or whatever.
And I mean, yeah, I don't know how you guys want to structure it,
maybe chronologically for the movie or the video or I think chronologically
from the video would be best, but I mean, Southpaw's got he came prepared.
Well, yeah, I have some general questions to ask.
We can go over the video chronologically
later on, I guess.
But I mean, I think that there's just there's just a few general
points that I have, like points of contention that I have with your video
that I kind of want to get straight to the point with.
OK. So for starters, I'm not sure if you're aware.
So these guys over at BFAP, you know, Wolf, Mauler, Rags,
I was blowing up their chat at several points in their stream
because I'd been looking forward to them covering your video.
And I had a script for my own video prepared.
And I tweeted Mauler like about a week before
asking him if if he wanted to read my my notes that I had taken.
And he said that they were going to go and go in blind.
So once they were streaming, I noticed that they were
they were missing a few things.
I wanted to go ahead and share some of my observations with them.
And eventually I mentioned that I had seen the film in theaters six times.
Oh, my God.
So the reason the reason for that is I have something
called an AMC A-list subscription. Do you guys know what that is?
Say that again.
It's like a better movie pass, I assume.
Yes, a much better movie pass.
AMC A-list only works at AMC theaters,
but you pay 20 bucks a month and you get three movie tickets every Friday.
And that's the number IMAX 3D
everything, and it's just twenty dollars a month.
And so I got a list right around the time that fallout came out.
And I went inside like just a regular showing.
And the story was a little complicated.
Like I can give you leeway on that.
Ren is it is a more complicated movie than average.
But I still had a general gist of what was going on.
And I wasn't like confused or anything.
But the action was just so mind blowing to me
that I wanted to see it again and that time in IMAX.
And after I saw it, IMAX for the first time,
the next four showings that I saw it and were in IMAX.
OK. Well, let me just make something clear real quick.
This video I.
I could have made it twice the length because I cut so much out
because I like to try to keep my videos as short as possible.
And I realize, you know, who the other people in here don't tend to do that.
But that's just not my style.
The idea of having a video that that hits the one hour mark
just gives me a panic.
You know, I don't want to do that.
So I trimmed out so much.
And I think one of the bigger mistakes I made with this video was
simply not explaining myself well enough, not like going back
to a point I made and doubling down on it.
I would, as we'll see, bring something up and just leave it there.
Kind of thinking people would know where I'm coming from.
Mm hmm. So I mean, I'll probably wind up repeating myself
a couple of times here, but yeah.
Well, that was one of my biggest problems with your video, actually, was
like bringing up what felt like like not even nitpicks,
like you were just kind of recapping the film in kind of a sarcastic tone
as if it's it's a like this.
This thing that I'm talking about here is inherently ridiculous, like,
you know, something like like the lay of pop and scene in The Last Jedi.
That's something that, you know, is just ridiculous.
On on the surface, right?
Like you don't really have to elaborate as to why.
But something like it's like the final fight in Fallout
is something where you literally all you were doing was
kind of recapping it in a kind of sarcastic tone
and then leaving it at that without actually elaborating.
And so I think that if your video had been twice as long in that
that extra length would have been to actually elaborate on your points.
Yeah, it probably would have actually been better.
And if you want, I mean, if you want to make a if you want to like kind of
reedit things together and try to release a longer version of the video,
I would check it out because if it OK, yeah, because, you know, it's over.
That's that's fine. That's fine.
Better to be too too verbose than to be unclear.
I suppose. Yeah, I agree with that.
I mean, obviously, you're talking to people who make you our analysis of media.
Yeah, we're just like, fuck it, keep it going.
I mean, like my Captain Marvel is under an hour before I made edits to it.
Now it's going to be over. So I'm just like, oh, good.
Funnily enough, I did actually like I was happy that all my rage
and praises were under an hour.
I was like some neat little packagey thing, but this one can't be.
So I was like, oh, well, you know, I have to make myself clear about all of it.
Yeah, I am.
You know, the thing about Mueller is that he gets a lot of shit for for being too long.
But the thing is that I like that he is willing to really like dig
in to the details and elaborate on his points.
And he will draw examples from other films to compare
and contrast with what he is talking about.
So even when he's like talking about, you know,
Buffy the Empire Slayer in the middle of A Force Awakens review,
I like it because he he has a point that he is trying to get across to us
in a way that like if he hadn't elaborated,
if he hadn't went on this little tangent, then his his point wouldn't have been as thorough.
And so I it's not the length that matters, it's the thoroughness.
And if you're generally if you're longer, that gives you more time to be more thorough.
Yeah, that's that's that's all.
Yeah, I know. It's just different styles, right?
There's nothing wrong with the way Mueller does it.
I just like to keep my videos as short as they can be, because I
like to try to keep them as entertaining as they can be.
So I put in fast music, let it edit some things like that.
And when I am like rereading my script and I feel like this is,
you know, it's a decent point or whatever, but people might lose interest.
I just get rid of it because I want to keep it.
Fud say that's a mistake.
I would say that's a mistake, too.
I don't care. In this case, it was.
But I don't care. A lot of people do care about length.
I care about thoroughness.
I mean, it's all you have to cut out something like that's credible.
For a figure that someone might not like it because it adds to runtime.
I think you're definitely taking the worst of the two options.
Because, you know, obviously this this applies to movies.
Like if your movie was five hours long, you have to shorten it.
You have no choice. But with a YouTube video like you,
do you take the comments that say like, I'm not watching this too long.
Do you take them very seriously?
Um, no, but it's just just just an idea.
Like if your video is, let's just say 40 minutes on Mission Impossible Fallout,
then you make another one on Mission Impossible Fallout two.
That's 40 minutes.
Like what if someone watches them back to back and says, oh, they were great.
Like maybe they would have watched an hour and 20 minutes of just about Fallout one.
You know what? My my friend Aaron Roberts, he actually
he he did like sort of a private session with me going over your video.
We went for like seven hours on just the first half.
He's asking what you what you cut out.
Oh, God. OK. It was when did I write this?
Dick December, early January. So.
If I were to tell you what I cut out, what I remember cutting out, it
it's going to be such a disjointed conversation.
All right. All right. All right.
I mean, I'm going to assume you wouldn't have cut out the better points, right?
You would have cut out points that we would have been.
Yeah, I wanted to keep it as I suppose truncated as possible.
OK. Um, for example, like if it let's just say you picked up
that on cruises wearing a watch in one scene that's black
and then the next thing it was white and the next thing it was black and you cut
that, that's something you would cut because it's just OK is.
Yeah, it was actually there's actually a little continuity error.
I noticed in the bathroom scene, those those four guys that walk in.
And I think that Ethan and Walker and the lark decoy
are having some sort of orgy in the bathroom stall.
Yeah. As they're walking away, if you look closely,
there's like a cut during their walking away
and they completely switch it like switch positions.
Like there isn't a single person in the same position.
That's just a good orgy.
Yeah, I mean, like, I mean, like, no, they're
seriously totally change marks mid-catch and they missed it.
There was a part. Oh, go on.
Oh, no, it's like it's see, that's an objective error in the film.
But at the same time, that's not that that isn't substantive.
It doesn't like ruin the plot.
No, I don't count.
I don't count continuity against a movie.
If it's unless it's rampant, constantly happening, then it can become distracting.
But I think it should be an issue depending on the results of that continuity.
Like Ray's disappearing knife is serious.
Four guys, four guys walking away, though, singing some song.
No, not not a deal.
There is a part in that bathroom scene where the four guys are pounding on the door.
They think they're having gay sex in the stall.
And one of the guys jumps up over the stall.
You can tell he can clearly see that they're scanning
this unconscious man's face, but he doesn't seem to care.
I thought at that point, they were actually like Walker and Ethan were
like kind of trying to keep the door shut.
Like like they're kind of barricading the door with their hands.
So it doesn't quite look like they're scanning the guy's face.
And even if they were, I mean, it was a pretty quick jump.
You know, you would have seen something very vaguely,
probably would have caught that there's just guys in there if you saw anything.
And even if he did, what would you how would you react to that?
You're like, there's two guys with a laptop and another guy
who looks like he's knocked out.
I don't know, but you'd be alarmed, right?
Sure. I just don't know what they would even do with that information.
Just be like, that's fucking weird.
I mean, there are it's already three guys in one bathroom stall.
So that's pretty weird to begin with. Yeah.
Um. At your people's boring parties, maybe.
But yeah, no, I seriously think that
if you're if the points that you were making, like that you cut out
were a lot more pedantic than sure.
But if you if you would cut out like parts where you were actually
elaborating on what you had left in the video, that that's just important, man.
It's very important.
OK, like, like I think you guys took issue with the string scenes,
what I call them, which is essentially a almost two minute long
establishing shot in the movie. It's one of them.
Some of them are longer than others. There's a few. OK. Yeah.
And that you only mentioned two of them, though, in your video, there.
I only mentioned two, but I think there's three.
There's the one when he's going with White Widow from the club to her
crew and then the one on the boat. And then what's the third one?
Oh, when he's follow Elsa's following Tom Cruise. That's it.
Yeah. So, um, um, OK.
Well, I go ahead.
The string scenes, I didn't double down on why I thought they were bad.
I kind of thought they spoke for themselves.
So it's just odd to me that a movie that won't go into detail
about a lot of things like.
How Tom Cruise knew this black market dealer had plutonium,
how they came in contact, like who this guy is, they could.
They clearly have a little bit of history together.
The movie won't go into any detail on that,
but they'll show us the scene of them riding on a boat
with no dialogue, nothing going on.
And it's like the only reason that boat scene is in the movie
is to bridge these and it's like this transparent attempt
at bridging previous scene to the next scene
because the movie is just built around this action.
So the movie wants to tell us why they've arrived in the locations
and how there are better ways of doing it.
So no, I go.
OK, for example, like when they're in the car,
Solomon Lane has the bag over his head.
That could have been a string scene, but Simon Pegg or no,
somebody makes a joke.
They said, was it you that picks a small car?
Something like that.
Just says that to Walker.
Yeah, let's at least instead of just you're sitting there
and then you're looking at your watch like what you hear
our counter argument for that.
I don't know where the idea that they do all of this
without a word tells us a lot about their team.
Also, could I just like quickly mention just a few things?
So so the one where they're traveling to the White Widows Mansion,
which you in your video, by the way, you mentioned as they go somewhere,
which is odd because she mentions that she would like to go home
in the very previous scene before they go there.
But that's that's beside the point, I guess.
That's not a very long transition scene that goes on for like
about like maybe 30 seconds or so.
However, the two strings things that you actually did mention in your video.
So I actually watched the film again today.
And there's something I'd like to point out about the two that you you brought up.
OK. OK. So also following anything goes on for basically an entire minute. OK.
And there isn't any action that comes
before it or after it. It's two conversations.
It was odd to hear you define a string scene as trying to string
two action scenes together and then use it again in the context of
stringing two pretty important conversations together.
But then I actually like checked out the timestamps of the action scenes
that these scenes were taking that the first string scene
that you mentioned was taking place in in between.
And so the the truck and motorcycle chase, it begins at the 53 minute,
50 second mark.
That's when that's immediately when Ethan rams the prisoner transport.
And then he jumps into the into the boat at the one hour mark.
So that's six hours is it necessary six not six hours,
but six minutes and 10 seconds of action. OK.
Because because that's a truck chase that immediately leads to a motorcycle chase.
I count that as basically one action scene.
You oddly counted it as two.
I mean, I guess that you could try to break it up into two.
But like literally the transition between the truck and the motorcycle is they just
they walk out of the truck like through through its windshield.
And then it gets stuck in the alley.
Yeah, like it's literally like a 10 second transition.
But it's like it's basically the same scene.
But so then after that, you have a 65 seconds of them in the boat
and then they arrive at the garage and then there's a there's a cop out there.
Yeah, cop lady. She she that whole sequence.
That whole sequence goes from
one hour, one minute and five seconds to one hour, three minutes, 10 seconds.
So it's like two minutes and five seconds of like it.
I wouldn't call it an action scene per se, but it's like it's just an intense moment.
I kind of that is tension building and then a little bit character building
as well when he tells her she'll be fine. Mm hmm.
Yeah, it's it's definitely not like a string scene, but it is.
No, no, no, no.
I was purely talking about from the time he gets on the boat
to as soon as that garage door opens and we see cop lady.
Well, then then cop lady that follows.
That's followed by 42 seconds.
And then after that, we get from our three minute 52 seconds
to our six minute 45 seconds, a motorcycle chase.
So to keep to keep that in perspective here,
you have a total of just under two minutes of string scenes
or transition scenes building up tension.
And then in that 13 minute window of time
between the beginning of the truck chase to the end of the ILSA chase.
That's 13 minutes.
You have 11 minutes of action or tension.
And then you have just two minutes or just under two minutes
like taking a break.
When the movie comes to a screeching halt to show you almost nothing.
No, you could do more with that.
So when you're in the theater and you're watching an action movie
and there is a like a ton of action, you need an occasional break.
You need a process. Yeah.
And you could still use that as a break.
But let's have some levity with the characters.
Let's, you know, just that this was a perfect opportunity
to have some banter to to do anything
but just show us them going from A to B.
Not what they usually do.
No. In what?
Another mission impossible in scenes between the action,
they'll be banter and character growth.
I thought it was quite an interesting change that they have silence.
The characters know exactly what's going on.
They move and then we get the the, you know, the floor pulled out from us
where everything is going normally.
Everybody's acting normally.
And then there's a cop just like, oh, shit, this fucks everything up.
I see there's a formula to Mission Impossible,
which is that they make the plan and the plan always goes wrong.
So I'm just I'm never surprised when it goes wrong.
It's just par for the course.
So when he sees cop lady, I'm like, OK,
well, it's like the different kind of going wrong.
She's a good guy.
Yeah, it's like here's the thing.
Ethan gets into the boat and you have like a minute to go.
OK, thank God.
They escape from the cops, right?
And it's like building up.
And then, oh, shit, there's a cop that just busted them.
And then in that scene, you know, you've got you've got Walker.
The camera cuts to Walker.
He's he's grabbing his pistol.
It's very obvious that he is going to shoot this lady before, like,
like until the White Widow's men get there.
Very great scene.
And so it's just having that little minute of like feeling relief
with the characters because they just got away from the cops
and they think that everything is going well.
And then they see the cop lady.
You're experiencing that with them.
Whereas if you just smash cut from Ethan
jumping into the boat to the garage door opening, the lady cop is there.
You don't get that feeling.
I mean, yeah, be more critical of that.
So be like, wow, they just jumped right next to when something happens.
Yeah, yeah. I'm not saying it was I'm not asking for a smash cut.
I'm just asking for.
Depth for some some fun, some levity or just for
anything to happen during that scene apart from A to B.
So can I can I can I ask you something?
Sure. OK, so
until Ilsa shoots
fake lark.
No, Lane, when Ilsa shoots Lane in the car,
they still have a bag over Lane's head.
Yeah. And Ilsa and Ethan isn't really like talking that much. OK.
Ethan is pretending to be John Lark and he's supposed to be
handing Lane off to the apostles.
And they mention Walker even mentions this before Ethan rams the prisoner.
I should think about that.
Yeah. Holy shit. You're the guy.
Yeah. So why would Ethan be blabbing off
and giving away that he's the guy that that, you know,
Lane knows all of them as well, isn't he?
I know he knows. Yeah, I'm a peg.
Yeah, I'm not saying he should be blabbing off.
I'm just something with.
They shouldn't be talking at all.
They shouldn't be talking.
That makes for it makes for a boring scene.
And it brings the pacing to a screeching halt.
I'll see. OK, wait.
That's two claims.
One of them subjective, as you are probably aware, right?
Whether or not the scene bores you is not boring.
But what are you suggesting it's doing to the pacing?
Because if anything, I'd say it's a boon to the pacing.
A boon? OK.
Well, we have fast and slow, then fast again.
But it's it's just awkward.
It's awkwardly slow because there's it's like I've said, nothing happens.
We're going from a motorcycle chase all of a sudden.
Nothing like literally nothing.
So it's is it inherently bad?
Is it inherently bad when a scene is quiet
and doesn't have like any action or dialogue or character development?
Like, even if it's short?
No, and every movie is different.
It's a case by case basis.
So so is the string scene too long?
Yes, because there's not much going on in it.
It's it's 65 seconds in between 11 minutes of action. OK.
So is that is that disproportionately long?
Because that's not disproportionately long to me.
I feel like that's that's fair.
It gives me like time to like breathe.
And like I'm feeling a sigh of relief because Ethan just escaped the cops successfully.
And I'm getting to experience that with him and the IMF.
OK, but sure.
Like, like I look, it's OK to not like it,
but you can't say that it's an objective flaw because you're the like
one of the only people that I've I think you're the they're the first person
actually I've ever heard make this complaint.
And so we need a larger consensus than one guy.
I'm curious as well.
How do you feel about like Lord of the Rings doing it regularly?
Well, I haven't seen Lord of the Rings since I was, gosh, 13 or something like that.
What's an estimation of the amount of string scenes in Lord of the Rings?
They're called transition scenes, by the way.
Well, first off, you're a heretic
for not watching it every day, a couple of days.
Second, should be this.
Hold on. How many how many transition scenes?
How many scenes are there of instrumental music playing across a landscape
being shown or characters moving from one place to another?
Oh, fuck.
I haven't I haven't kept track of this.
I mean, this is the Lord of the Rings we're talking about.
I guess the first one that comes to mind is when the fellowship leaves Rivendell
and going across the mountains. Yeah.
There's a couple others, like when Sam and Frodo are leaving the Shire
just before they get to the cornfields or I don't know if they're cornfields,
but when they all I'm bringing up here is the how do you
how do you quantify whether or not they are they bad, too?
Well, I mean, it shows it shows a progression of where they're going
because they're going from one end of Middle Earth to the other.
So they got to show how they're going from one place. Yeah.
Most without most movies have some type of a transition scene.
So like, do most movies bother you when they do that?
Or is there just something special about Fallout? No. OK.
So while watching Fallout in the theater, I knew the whole time
I could practically see the script because I knew this whole movie
was centered around its action scenes.
And I could, you know, essentially, I guess see the matrix of it. Right.
I knew it's like this guy, they're just in the boat
because he couldn't think of another reason to start the car chase.
That's the boat was a pretty effective way at getting him away from.
Yeah, I don't know. I don't really see even if that was the origin of it.
There's nothing in the actual movie that wouldn't suggest that was a great getaway.
I mean, it's a fine getaway. Sure.
But I'm just asking for more. That's all.
What do you want more?
Just any banter, any sort of development.
We just said they can't talk.
They can't talk.
Well, I mean, because the idea is knock them out, you know, oh, whatever.
When were they going to have the opportunity to do that in the situation?
When they were in the boat for a minute.
Lanes, do they have do they have like a needle or anything?
Sure. Tom Cruise has got that needle.
No, but do they have it there?
I don't know. Look, we're getting into.
We're going too deep here.
I'm all I'm asking for to do that specific.
Yeah, we're like talking about stuff that's not in the movie.
Well, you're you're trying to say that the movie is bad for what it does,
but you're not giving us a substantive reason to think that it is bad.
You got to give us an example of what it should have done
if you're going to criticize it because I did.
Yeah, I said, give it banter.
And you guys, but we're providing answers for why they can't do that.
Or not even just why they can't do it, but why?
I don't even think it would be good to do it.
OK, but then it's like that doesn't make the enemy is not banter
throughout the film anyway.
There's a lot of banter. There's a little.
And a lot. You just said it doesn't make the scene interesting.
Like, that's not I could just say the reverse back to you.
It does make it interesting.
Even if I did make it interesting.
Yeah, you still can't do that next to Laura or next to Lane.
Their plan A is to hand Lane off to the apostles
without blowing their cover and then also shooting Lane in the ear.
Fucks that up royally because because Ethan has to take the bag off
and see that Lane is not dead.
See, to me, I thought he took the bag off.
Well, I know that's why in the story, but he took the bag off
to show the audience that that actor is in the car with Tom Cruise as he drives.
But we already know that.
Well, that's he also has to be sure that the bullet didn't end up in his.
I was going to say he needs to check he's not dead.
That's perfectly. Yeah.
If they kept the bag on his head all the way up until that point,
there is probably a reason why they didn't want him to know
who had him at that point of time.
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, again, Walker Walker mentions, holy shit,
you're the guy that brought him down, huh, in the truck?
And Ethan says, and he's like, no, sorry, Walker is like,
I wonder how how that will play out, you know, how long will he keep up to himself?
And Ethan Ethan says, we'll burn that bridge when we get there.
So obviously they are trying to prolong that for as long as possible.
OK, there is there is stuff in the film that establishes that.
And I'll say this, I'll say this.
How many times have you seen fall out?
Just out of curiosity?
Beginning to end, I think three.
OK, well, editing it and scrubbing through it a lot.
This is this is a recurring point that I'm probably going to be making tonight.
So a movie being complicated and having a lot of like details
is not inherently a bad thing
because as long as it's providing the information that you need
to understand the story and to justify what is happening in it,
as long as it exists in there and it's clear, like,
it's not like there's stuff happening in the very, very like far background
that only like the nerds over at our movie details are going to catch.
As long as it's there,
then like it's really not the movie's fault.
If you aren't paying attention to it.
No, I'm paying attention.
There's just far too much.
I don't think so.
Well, I mean, so we can probably move on from string season
now to do you want to talk about plot then or.
Yeah, there's a well.
One thing is you mentioned that there
there are several faces and names that you have to to memorize.
So just before we before we get on that,
given that most movies expect you to remember multiple faces and names,
do most movies bother you or is no, no, no, no, no, no, no, please.
No, I said that because it's like, you know,
they'll just show a photograph of White Widow and it's like one or two seconds.
And you're like, OK, this is the mission.
We're getting the deets.
And then then they go through this skydive and a bathroom fight.
And then by the time the White Widow rolls around, I'm like, wait, who's that?
It's easy to forget.
They mention her several times.
I was going to say, don't they reestablish?
No, no, no. To forget her face.
Like, I knew she was the White Widow, but I had completely forgotten that
that she was on the in the folder when they're in the bathroom, isn't it?
Like, he's like, we're going to I'm going to go see the White Widow as John Locke.
So we know that's where they're going.
And when she's oh, yeah, he walks right up to us so we can.
It's safe to assume she's the White Widow, whether or not you remembered
the screenshot from Alec Baldwin's file.
Yeah, you don't you don't have to memorize.
In fact, his face could have not been in the file.
And the film still works.
I'm just saying if you go ahead, go around.
I interrupted you. You go ahead. I'm sorry.
Well, here's the other thing.
Is there a particularly excessive number of faces and names to remember?
Like you, you have you have Lane Walker, who's also John Lark.
So he's like kind of a twofer, I guess.
You have Alan Humley.
That's Alec Baldwin.
You have Luther Benji.
You have Erica Sloan, who you refer to as black lady throughout the whole video.
And that's kind of confusing.
Ilse, you have the White Widow and then you have the White Widow's brother, Zola.
He's like probably the least important of the bunch here.
And then there's Julia.
So a lot of them are previous movies as well.
Yeah, only four of these people were introduced in this film.
So 11 characters.
Is that excessive like an excessive number of characters to keep track of?
No. But what I meant by what I said in the video is like
the who's the guy in the hospital?
What's his name?
Neil's Del Brook.
Yes, I had no idea who that guy was the first time I saw it.
His picture comes up for a second or two
in the opening briefing for Ethan Hunt.
And that opening briefing is like a massive dump of it's like
you are getting fed the whole movie, just all this stuff.
Like what happened in between
MI5 and MI6 and this guy's face.
And I'm like, wait, so when they're in the hospital, I'm like, who's that again?
I might have agreed with you there if he showed up like an hour
or an hour and a half or two hours after he first shows up.
But he's like literally in the film five minutes after his picture.
Seven pay off between 10 minutes at most.
I think it's even less than that, actually.
Yeah, there's there's a world of difference between like
his face shows up on screen, he's named.
And then like 10 minutes or so later, he's we see him.
Now, again, if if he was a pivotal person to the climax
and then he isn't in the film like like you have a mention
at the same part of the movie and then he doesn't show up until the very end,
I would wholeheartedly agree with you.
That's a little unreasonable for a film to expect from the audience.
But the thing is, if if the but it's like I said earlier,
if the film is giving you the information that you need
to understand what is going on, if the information exists
and it is presented clearly and then within a reasonable amount of time,
there is a payoff to that set up.
It is not the film's fault if you didn't pay attention.
Or if you can't remember that character.
It's not that I wasn't paying attention.
Like I was still able to understand the like you said,
the general gist of the movie.
It's just I didn't know the the smaller details
that I started to get fixated on as the movie went along.
Like to that guy was.
Well, I will say this, like,
I mean, when I saw the film a second time, I mean, each time I saw the film,
I picked up on more and more details.
I had missed the first time around because there is a lot.
There is a lot.
However, that doesn't mean that that's objectively bad.
If a film has
if it's constructed in a way that you keep on picking up on more and more details,
the more that you watch it, that's actually a sign of its quality, not that it's bad.
But important plot details, like it's one thing for Easter eggs and maybe.
Like in a movie like Hereditary, if you watch it again, you pick up like,
oh, that's what she that's the pamphlet that slid through the mailbox in the door.
Again, he appears five or less to five or 10 minutes.
They say Neil's Delbrook is a scientist of whatever degree.
Nuclear scientist.
He made comments.
And again, I've not even seen the movie enough times
to say that I should be remembering this this well, but I guess I have.
You're only anti religious, anti religious.
Yes, you got booted from his job and he was hired by the apostles.
And that's it.
Well, we need to know he he knows how to do nuclear stuff.
And he's hired by the apostles.
And I remember the second time viewing the movie, I realized I am.
So when he sees that the Vatican and Mecca and Jerusalem Jerusalem
have supposedly been nuked, he's he's happy about it.
So it's like they established that very early on in the film
and there's a payoff and it's not very long after it's mentioned.
The information is there, man.
And here's the thing.
The reason why I'm saying that you didn't pay attention to the film.
I know that sounds harsh,
but honestly, the stuff that you get wrong in your video,
that the fact that the the interpretation that you didn't pay attention
to it is the most charitable one I can give you,
because some of the details that you get are so wrong
that it's either bad or that you like lied by omission.
And I don't want to to go there.
Like it's morally OK
if you just simply like miss something or you weren't like what?
Maybe maybe saying that you didn't pay attention to it
sounds like I'm framing it as in you were just like on your phone the whole time.
Maybe it's not that.
Maybe it's just like you just simply didn't catch something.
And it's OK to not catch something or even to like
if the film just not grabbing your attention, that's fine.
But it's better than saying that you lied by omission. OK.
Yeah, no, I agree with that.
The first time through, there were things I didn't catch.
But there was a point about halfway through where I was just,
you know, not having a good time.
Wouldn't you enjoy it more and more the more you watch it
because you pick up on more and more details?
Yeah, no. Well, not everybody else.
It does work that way for me, though.
Yeah, honestly, if I see a film multiple times
and there's more and more that I get out of it, like each time that I watch it,
then I love it.
I mean, that's how that's how I felt with like Infinity War, Civil War,
Fallout, of course, you know, I mean, Fallout, this I wasn't a mission.
I wasn't a huge Mission Impossible fan before Fallout came out.
Like I loved Rogue Nation and I liked Ghost Protocol and Am I one and three?
But I wasn't like a diehard fan, right?
Nobody likes to.
I mean, wait, there's a there's a two.
There's a second Mission Impossible.
Scratch that people still like it, but nobody defends it is a strong movie.
I don't think it's a so bad it's good film.
But honestly, it's the bad one.
And it's good that the other films haven't really acknowledged it.
But the point is I was so excited for Infinity War last year.
Like I had to see that on opening night.
I didn't feel that way with with Fallout.
But man, Fallout was the top of my list of films I saw last year.
And so. Good.
It's interesting that you say that that you didn't like Mission Impossible,
but you like six because I'm a reverse.
I used to love it.
I didn't say that I didn't like Mission Impossible.
I wasn't a huge fan. Yes.
But you like the sixth one.
That's and I love Mission Impossible, except two, of course.
I love one and three growing up.
And the previous three
Emission of Possibles have really just been losing me more and more
because their their action set pieces rather than
their action set pieces first and everything else later.
Do you understand?
Can you argue all of them with that?
Yeah, I here's the thing.
Here's the thing about writing.
Sometimes you have a scene in your head that you really want to do
and you will construct a story around it.
And depending on how good of a writer you are,
the story will still end up good or it will end up bad.
So if you've got Zack Snyder saying, I want Batman and Superman to fight each other.
And then he creates the piece of shit known as Batman v.
Superman, Dawn of Justice.
That's a pretty bad example of that.
Honestly, same with Uncharted 3.
I think that Uncharted 3 is a contrived mess of a story, but it's a fun game to play.
Wolf, I think that you mentioned Uncharted 3 at one point, like a while back.
For him, probably, Wolf.
That's OK. That's awkward.
What was?
Oh, I mentioned Uncharted 3.
It's a contrived mess of a story with neat action sequences
that don't really have much connection to each other.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, I like I mean, Uncharted 1 is
it's kind of Uncharted 2 is definitely the best.
Uncharted 4 is my second favorite three.
I I this is coming from someone who has only played through the four games once.
So I'm probably forgetting a lot of what happened in them.
I'm just going off of my first time playing through them.
Sure. But I remember three being really disappointing to me,
especially the ending, which seemed really, really rushed.
And I didn't like the whole fake Sully death, which.
Yeah. I mean, first off, they already did that in the first game.
And I thought it was kind of lame there.
But the third game, it was really annoying in the third game.
But I liked Uncharted 2 and 4 a lot. Yeah.
So my point here is, yes, with this, like the whole idea of
you've got a scene that you really want in your story
and then you like work the plot around it,
that can result in messes like BVS or Uncharted 3.
But that's not a universal case, because if there is stuff in your story
that justifies why the action scenes are happening, then it's fine.
And I don't think that you ever really argued
why it was contrived for them to do a halo jump,
followed by a bathroom fight, followed by a lounge fight.
And yeah, I think I just inject as well that this could totally explain
why you're having a negative experience
if you're almost expecting this before even watching the movie.
So you're not even taking the scenes that connect the action
that seriously, because you're like, oh, they're just connecting the action.
Dude, I'm a writer myself.
I've got scenes in my stories that I know I want to do.
And I'm having to like figure out what I'm going to do in the middle
to connect, to connect everything together in a non contrived way.
And that's something that I worry about in a non contrived way.
Not just doing anything that I want.
I'm not Ryan Johnson.
I'm not going to write my entire stupid Holdo subplot
to build up to the hyperspace kamikaze.
You know, I'm trying to come up with a sensible solution
for why this scene is happening after this scene.
So then can you can you give examples of how it could have been done better?
Yes, Ryan.
Yeah, I just think they should have cut some of the action scenes out
because some of them weren't that great.
And it was clear.
Here we go. Like, OK.
You had you said so much stuff that I mean, you went on a tangent about
uncharted and all that.
When you're writing a movie, things change.
Like every script starts with an idea like that's everybody knows that.
But unless the ideas are against what you like.
But they started filming Mission Impossible without a script.
They had a 33 page outline.
Hold on. Iron Man and Casablanca and Buster's as well.
You just said every script starts with an idea.
And then when they start with the ideas of let's look at these action scenes
that we could fit into a story, that's apparently bad.
They didn't even have a story, really.
Well, yeah, of course they didn't have a story because they were still working on it.
That's how it started.
It started.
They started filming with a 33 page outline.
All right. But then they made a story and put it in a film.
He had to make massive, massive changes to originally.
The story was going to be much darker.
Ethan Hunt was really better.
Yeah, that's true.
But Ethan Hunt was going to go way deeper as John Lark.
And he was going to actually commit some crimes and have to deal with
a lot of stuff like that.
And he couldn't find a way to work just because you were disappointed
that it wasn't that. No, no, no.
I didn't know that till after the fact.
I'm just saying. So what how does that change anything?
Yes. Just to clarify here.
Right. So let's say Mission Impossible Fallout was a horrible mess
and all the connecting scenes really don't work.
They're just really bad.
Then it would be a great part of the video to be like, by the way,
this happened because this is how they made the script.
I'd be like, oh, wow, cool.
But if we end up with something that is coherent, does make sense
and does follow, then saying this is how they made it.
They made it with one arm tied behind their back blind while spinning
around in circles.
I'd be like, that's only impressive now they managed to do that.
Instead, it's because like it would explain the problem,
but now it only acts as a sort of like, like it's the same
with Ryan Johnson.
He didn't do more than a single draft outside of 10% of the script,
I think they said.
So to me, I'm just like, well, that explains the story.
But I mean, if someone made an incredible script from a first draft
that was barely changed, I'd be like, wow, you're a good writer.
Like, you must be a good writer.
I mean, to link it back to Uncharted again,
there was an original script for Uncharted 4 that I think was Amy Henning.
Is that who it was?
Amy Henning. Yeah.
So she had a little bit of a different idea of where to take it.
It could have been better,
but it also could have been Uncharted 3, which she also worked on.
It wasn't particularly great from my memory either.
So it could have been one or the other.
We don't know for certain if these ideas would have worked better.
So it's not really pertinent to even bring them up.
You're like, well, because you use you frame as an explanation
for how the movie is not working.
So I'd rather just address whether or not it's working,
because bringing up that they did the what they did is irrelevant.
If I don't think we're going to get anywhere, really, because you guys
feel like it. I don't know what your point is here when you say that stuff.
I don't know what your point is that you're making.
Well, it would explain it if it was flawed.
Right. But we need to talk about whether or not it is flawed.
Yeah. If anything, this just makes me think of how talented the writers are.
Yeah. The fact that they had to improvise like this
and it ended up as as well constructed as it is like the
the origin of how they made this film doesn't matter to me.
It's the execution.
And like you're you're pointing out like how they made the plot
as if that automatically makes it bad.
It's a bad argument.
I'm not trying to be mean. It's a bad argument.
No, no, no, you're fine.
Can we circle back to that? I really, really got to pee.
John, I got to go. Yeah, sure. Absolutely.
Hold on to that thought. I'll be right back. All right.
I'm trying to think of like, because there are
I'm assuming how far into your your list have you gotten there?
Uh, we only can't.
Did you did you opening with the easier, lighter stuff?
Is that because I well, I had plenty of stuff about the string scenes
and I guess that we've moved on past that.
But we kind of went through like most of those points.
I mean, the thing is that string scenes are actually just transition scenes.
And oh, sure. I'm only calling that.
So it's speaking his language sort of things.
He knows what I'm talking about.
Yeah, I just had to be blunt earlier when I said string scenes
is a thing that he made up.
Well, he it's yeah. Well, all words are made up.
I'm fine. We know what he's referring to.
Like scenes that connect to.
But he's using it and he's making it the whole derogatory term.
It's derogatory than previously established.
And it's a non it's a non argument.
But I mean, like we're not very far.
It's my list. I think I'm only on page two or five.
I was going to say just I'll be interested to hear his response to like
just the things that he's gotten wrong.
Like facts about the script, maybe just to hear it.
I'm assuming you've got a couple of them. I don't know.
Oh, oh, believe me, his massive plot whole thing.
I actually have a whole segment in my video.
I outright play clips from the film that explain away his problem with the scene.
You've got he's talking about how things would have gone much more smoothly
if they sent the strike team in to the grand play.
The problem with that is
that's that's a fake John Mark that they would be apprehending.
The real John Mark would still be at large.
The White Widow doesn't have the plutonium, which he actually says in his video
that she does, but the film states that she doesn't.
She's just a broker.
So she's not poised to capture the apostles and John Lark
and then give the plutonium back to the CIA.
But he alleges that essentially.
And then he.
I'm sorry, I lost my time.
I was going to say, I may as well save it anyway.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, we'll go over it.
Keep that in mind. We're not done with it yet.
OK, all right.
And yes, I did make up string scenes. I mean, that that was.
Yeah, it's supposed to be a bad transition scene is the idea, right?
Yeah.
But but you would basically say
that a string scene is indistinguishable from a transition scene.
It's just a transition scene that you think is done poorly.
Yeah. All right.
Good, good to have that clarified.
So let's see.
You criticized for having a complicated plot,
and there's a lot of really good films with complicated plots.
I can name some off the top of my head, like the suspects.
Pardon the problem with those films, too.
Or, yeah, prestige, inception, memento.
I mean, there's a lot of Christopher Nolan films.
Dark Knight.
Usual suspects, I haven't seen it.
OK, OK.
What are the other ones you said?
I've seen prestige, inception, departed.
The I saw the departed.
OK, these are all plots that people have cited have some trouble following.
OK, but I just felt like there was so much more story
to be delved into with certain things, certain aspects of fallout, like.
Yeah, sometimes like I imagine sometimes fallout as a like
10 episode season or miniseries,
and you could have a whole episode dedicated to how John Lark got to the CIA,
recruited these corrupt agents that help them out.
A TV show and a movie are two completely different.
Yeah, they're different.
To me, this genuinely felt like a season of television
crammed into a movie where Inception and
the other movies that I saw that you listed didn't feel that way.
Yes, they're complicated, but they're not overly complicated.
There's not so many elements.
Prestige literally has to be watched twice to be able to understand it.
And nobody watches that once will gain everything.
Well, hold on.
Can you like give examples of what specific parts of the story
you think could have been like a whole episode of a TV show?
Yeah, I just did the John Lark coming into prominence.
John Lark meeting up with Solomon Lane.
I don't necessarily disagree with that.
I could you can pad out everything and everything.
You can you know, like the Grand Palais.
That could be a whole two episode auto for all we know.
Yeah, you'd have to add a shit ton of things.
Every episode would have its own big action scene.
I'm more interested in the ideas.
Like what so what was what did you have trouble catching?
Or do you think what is what is poorly translated to the audience in the film?
I take issue mostly with like how
pretty big plot points are just kind of relegated to one line of dialogue.
Like such as so Southpaw was saying earlier about how I said in my video
that I said White Widow has the plutonium and that was a genuine mistake I made
because when I wrote that, I believed that and going through the video,
I just didn't catch it.
And I hate that stuff like that happens,
you know, but everybody gets stuff wrong.
You know, it was a miss.
But you had you had a that's a major issue with your script, though,
because if you're saying that this character has plutonium
and could easily just give it away to the CIA if she was working with the CIA
the whole time and then you use that to say it's a plot hole,
but it's not actually a plot hole.
This is sort of what I'm getting.
I want to finish Mahler's question before we because I'm going to get lost.
Sorry. Sorry. Go ahead.
There's one line of dialogue from The White Widow where she says,
oh, you must be mistaken.
This is a I'm just a broker.
One line in a two hour, 20 minute long movie in a very deliberate line, though.
Yeah, sure.
It's almost designed for people who are having trouble with understanding
who she is and what she does.
And the moment in the movie that is filled with dumps of exposition,
we learn that he's going after Solomon Lane. We.
And what else happens?
Oh, they explain who Solomon Lane is in that scene.
Henry Cavill looks into the camera and says all the sins he's done or whatever.
Tom Cruise, they also explain the upcoming plan.
And Tom Cruise has the daydream about the plan.
So it's one line in it's it's, you know, even Wolf said earlier
he missed one line in Alita, but here's the thing I want to I want to know,
because with Alita and with a couple of things with other movies
I've seen in the past,
I didn't have the movie with me on my screen.
And what are you doing?
He doesn't have a blue and copy of it, man.
Yeah, I mean, I made a whole video explaining a mistake
I made in explaining that it's still an issue.
But anyway, the thing is, is that I watch a lot of movies
and I make a video on them as they're still in the theater.
So I can't really reference them unless I go back to the theater.
I'm going based off of memory.
But it looked like you actually had the full movie in HD quality on your computer.
So it would be one thing if you were just misremembering something
and you can't be fucked to go spend twenty dollars to watch the movie again.
But if you have the thing on your computer, I'm inclined to ask,
like, did you make this script before you started editing
like when it was still in theaters or?
No, I wrote pieces of it before it came out.
But then when I watched it the second time,
I wrote some pinpoints and it's like it was a mistake.
I just I'm sure we're not going to like give you shit for making a mistake.
And when you clarify, it seems a little less.
You got less of an excuse when you have the movie with you.
And I agree.
I'm saying it's one line.
Like, I want to clarify that because I just pulled up the thing.
So I was curious if it is like, well, there must be some kind of misunderstanding.
I'm just a broker. I connect a buyer and a seller.
My seller isn't interested in cash.
So if you want the plutonium extract lane and make the trade.
That's I bring that up.
That's the very clip that I use in my video.
That's quite a chunk.
That's not like it's not like you went, huh?
And she goes, I'm just a broker.
And then they carry on with the scene.
Yeah, whereas with Alita, it was I'm paraphrasing
because I don't remember the exact line.
They're just one of the characters says he's got a chip in his head.
And obviously, that's not the exact quote.
I don't remember the exact quote.
But it was only like one sentence out of the whole two hour movie.
And I had seen it a month prior, and that's why I forgot that one line.
But if you have the thing on your computer and you're watching it
as you're making the video and it's far more significant
than what you're putting out, you don't have much of an excuse on this.
No, you're right. And I mean, it's just one of those things
that you don't necessarily know that you're wrong.
You know, it's in your head and you're like, OK, it's on the page.
And you just kind of, you know, it was a miss.
Yeah, I'm like, that's fair.
I just think that it's it's it's not something
that's easily missable compared to what would be one line
as far as I can understand.
Well, OK, I mean, if it's worth anything, which probably not.
But as I'm writing all this stuff out, I'm also trying to figure out how to make
the video flow well and how to make it fun.
And I think you guys can probably relate to that in some way.
So you're not fixating on certain details of the movie,
maybe as much as I should have, but I was just referring to you saying
that it's something people will miss.
I actually I actually just want to quickly say something nice.
I mean, the structure of your like of your script and everything, it was solid.
Like, I mean, I think the arguments were terrible,
but it felt like everything flowed pretty well.
I think that I think that your I think that your video editing skills
are also pretty good. Not going to lie.
There's there is a lot of instances where you use very appropriate
clips to like accompany what you were saying.
Even you can tell it took time for you to make it.
Yeah, I admire those that are just nightmares.
I admire the effort that you went with with making your video look good.
Like the production quality is great, but the we can end right here then.
No, no, no, not done.
I was like, we don't know where the hell he was or what he was referring to.
Oh, God. Yeah, happening.
It was just a mess for it. Oh, yeah.
On just now on the screen screen, we're we're going to talk about
that screen rate article, man.
That was a really, really bad idea
because I was actually searching on the Internet for that
because clearly I missed something.
I was searching on the Internet for what the hell
like what did I miss in the things that the fans were coming up with
and like Reddit posts and stuff was nuts.
And that was the one of the more tamer things.
I was going to say, when I first started writing my stuff,
like people were saying, I can't believe how stupid the audience are.
They can't tell that Holdo thinks that Poe is a mole.
It's like that's not in the movie is never said.
And she actually likes him.
That's just you've just invented that from nothing.
Can I can I quickly address the screen ramp thing?
I go for it. Yeah, I would really actually like
I clearly, clearly miss something here.
And I'd like the actual movie itself.
OK, so first of all, I'm going to copy and paste
the link into chat first. It's a good read.
Yeah, my screen, that's garbage.
Literally, the only the the pitch meeting series that
what was Ryan George does, he's but that's like for YouTube.
And he's not really making clickbait stuff for them, but
so I just want to like highlight a certain sentence here in this paragraph.
So Lane's vengeance against Ethan doesn't end here, though.
He also wants to set him up to take the fall for John Lark's crimes.
In order to make this happen, Walker hands the CIA boss, Erica Sloan,
a phone filled with fake evidence connecting Ethan to John Lark.
That's all well and good so far.
But then it goes on and says, and the ranges things so that Ethan will end up
posing as Lark for the meeting with the White Widow.
We need to stop right there.
Wait, wait, wait, you cut out for me.
What I'm saying is screenrants of that Walker arranged things
so that Ethan will end up posing as Lark for the meeting with the White Widow.
So we're going to stop right there
because that is a critical detail that the article gets wrong,
because there are three instances where Walker is actually obstructing Ethan
in the mission in Paris.
May I just say it looks like I wasn't the only one that got thrown off
by the plot, huh? Pretty cool, right?
I mean, it's not the I don't think everybody is going to get the plot.
I think anybody's making that play.
It is. It is.
Once again, it is not.
It is not the film's plot.
If you aren't paying attention to it or you get some details wrong,
as long as it's providing the information that's necessary for you.
I mean, this is something that's critical because because Walker
rips the hose, connecting Ethan's oxygen tank to his helmet.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Why did he do that?
I'm unsure.
Was it just so that they could get on with the mission?
He's like, John Locke needs that mission to go forward.
OK, that's what I thought.
He's obstructing Ethan from jumping out of the plane in time.
And it's actually a pretty neat little thing
because we're just told that he's not going to be letting Ethan get in his way.
Yeah, he's he's the hammer to Ethan Scalpel.
That's a recurring.
That's the kind of right in where I'm like, that's great,
because we've got one reason for it to happen that he's a good guy
and one reason to happen for it that he's a bad guy.
And like, yeah, it's like Walker is being told by Ethan,
we need to rethink this.
There's a storm out there.
Walker is more like over eager to get to the grand play in spite of the storm.
He's going to jump out and he's going to rip the hose out of Ethan's oxygen
tank or or pelmet or whatever, and he's going to jump out.
And then if if things go well for Walker,
optimally, Ethan can't connect the hose back to his helmet in time
and he can't make it to the grand play.
And then there's no bathroom fight and Ethan fails the mission.
You understand? Yeah.
Why are we going back to the plane jump again?
Because because this contradicts what Screen Rant said about him arranging things.
Now, secondly, what does he use to knock out the lark decoy in the bathroom?
But the mask thing, he destroys the little mask making machine.
So that's another way that he obstructs Ethan.
Yeah, there's a thing, too.
It's not a big detail that I had written down.
Every single Mission Impossible movie goes to the effort of showing how the
the mask is created, right?
This is the only movie that doesn't show you the device of how the mask is created.
It's a little bit different in each movie, but all we're shown is a laptop.
So are we expected to believe that this laptop prints the face out?
They have a laser pen that stands the person's face.
And yeah, but so 3D printer basically is in the laptop.
Yes. And that's and you know this.
I'm sorry, what was your question?
Well, like that.
So we're just meant to assume that the rubber comes out of the laptop.
It's a pretty so it's like a thick base with it's actually printing it out.
So, yeah, the rubber is probably in there.
Assuming it's not. It's not.
It's not actually a laptop.
It just looks like one.
Yeah, it is a face mask making machine.
I mean, it looks like a laptop.
Sure. A laptop. You can't go that.
You can't what?
Is he breaking up for anyone else or is it?
Yeah, a little bit.
OK, it's not a laptop.
It's just a face mask making machine that looks like a laptop.
It's not like you can just go on YouTube and watch eFap.
Yeah. And obviously, like you might I'd probably hand you
some form of a point, if not for the fact that it's been established
since the first one. Right. So what's been established the technology?
Yeah, but they always show how the face is created.
They always show the device that they carry around with them.
That makes the face, whether it's like a little thing with like metal
steel metal balls in it or just like a mannequin head with a laser cutter doing it.
And this one, it's it's a very it's a nitpick, really.
It doesn't show how the face is made.
And I thought that was interesting because it's kind of like a staple of the franchise.
Like they literally do.
No, when? What do you what do you what is it?
What is it you want to see?
Because we see the face being constructed inside the base of the laptop.
You see this face being scanned as he scans it,
but you don't see how the top the screen is the scan.
The base of it is the actual face making part.
But we're never shown where the
I can get you a screenshot if you want.
No, I know what you're talking about.
But we're never we never see a mask get created.
We just see a face get scanned.
We actually see it being created in the bathroom stall when they've got the lark.
Yeah, like the idea would be that once it's created, you probably open
some kind of lap on the base and take the mask out.
Did you did you did you notice the part where they're actually like
like the mask is like only partially made like the guy doesn't have a note.
Yeah, I'm a creature.
It wasn't a mask yet.
It was just they were still scanning his face because it was being made.
It was being made.
But it wasn't it was an image on the screen.
It wasn't the man. Oh, no, it was.
It was the mask.
It was on the screen.
Mallor, would you like to queue up the bathroom?
I'm going to watch together.
I don't know about that.
I'm just going to screenshot it myself.
Yeah, OK, that works.
Like was it a piece of, you know, silicon rubber material
in physically, you know, in existence?
Or was it a screenshot?
So I am pretty sure it was.
It was it was not a screenshot on the laptop.
There was a screenshot on a plane scene when Ethan is demonstrating it.
Yeah. But in the bathroom scene itself, you're seeing the mask being made
on the screen. It's only part.
So there's two parts to the laptop, the screen and the base.
Let's see. I actually have it open in Premiere.
The movie.
Yeah, I nearly got it.
Just scrubbing.
Hey.
So from that, can you see that the mask is actually being created?
The bomb.
No.
All right.
Let's see. I was.
Oh, yeah, I don't know.
Yeah, maybe.
Yep.
So they are they are showing you.
Yeah.
I mean, it's a little more than maybe I was going to say that
what I just showed you is like a different view.
We got a couple of objective fact.
Let's see it. Let's see it in motion.
Yeah.
Because they do they do begin the scan.
The camera pans to the screen being all damaged.
Then it pans down a little, if I remember, to the actual construction part of it.
I'm still trying to find it in mind.
I want to see it in motion.
OK, they're scanning.
The French cheese are ringing on the door.
OK, I know I'm at the shot you're at here.
Um.
I guess so.
I think that's only shot in the movie.
Well, what do you need?
But they don't move the goalposts on us.
No, no, no.
They didn't show it.
They do show it.
Sure. But I.
That's way.
That's like.
OK.
So again, I'm confused with the point.
It's OK.
So hold on.
They show it.
But because it's not long enough, that's bad.
I mean, no, no, no.
It's literally on screen for a second when there's, you know.
But it's there.
It's not a flaw there.
You said it's not there.
It is there.
You don't get to change the goalposts.
Do we even know that that isn't just another screen?
Do we know that that's a physical thing?
It's coming out of it.
It's clear what they're doing with it.
OK.
OK, look, we don't need to see the physical creation of the mask to
know that they are making a mask when they're scanning his face because
they've shown it in the movie already.
And yet we get it anyway.
Yeah.
You can't just say that it's not there when it literally is.
And then we post.
Well, it's not long enough.
So it's actually.
Well, actually, well, if you can, if you're just not paying attention to the
film.
Oh, I'm sorry that I missed the, you know, two seconds.
It's not. Well, I knew about it.
Apparently Rags and Wolf South Pole.
Do it.
How many times have you watched this again?
Three.
OK.
Ten for me.
And you had numerous.
I mean, how long is the scene up?
Can we.
Well, let's see if I can actually pull it from YouTube.
What is it?
A bathroom fight.
All out should probably do it.
Oh, give me one second.
Well, man, it's okay to be wrong on this.
On this point.
Oh, no.
I mean, it's clearly there.
But sweet.
Please let me play this in watch together.
Please, please, please.
Please.
It's there for two seconds as also other things are occurring.
Zero.
But two.
Three times.
So that's like six seconds.
Sure.
That's a long time.
I mean, six seconds is a long time.
That's a lot of screen.
We need to show it just so that we can actually.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
This is the moment.
Putting him up and also I'm just going to pause a lot.
Just that's still.
So that's the screen.
And then he's like, man, you idiot.
You smashed it.
Then give it a sec.
Yeah.
He's like gesturing to more like look at the shit, dude.
Come on.
I'm fucking working.
And they're still doing it.
I mean, together.
We scan it.
Then the camera pans down.
We got the screen, which is clearly still fucked up.
And then all the way down to the bottom, which is clearly printing.
There's no question.
Yeah.
This is not just some small thing.
This is the camera focusing.
It's three dimensional.
It's the entire screen.
It's the center of the center of the shot.
They legitimately are focused.
It's not like this is just a.
What you said you just saw it.
I was looking in premiere at it.
Hang on.
So, okay.
Go back.
What?
Okay.
All right.
That's the screen.
What we see now, right?
Just a little bit.
Scanning his face.
Then you see the screen with the smash on it.
And they span down to the bottom half of this laptop thing.
And they clearly printing.
That looks like a concept.
It literally looks like it wouldn't be complete.
That's the point.
Well, look how, wait,
look how thin the laptop is on that guy's legs and how that goes deeper than
where it is on his legs.
That doesn't change.
Why do you keep moving the goal?
You said this originally began with you saying that this wasn't here.
And then you showed that it was here and you were like, well,
it was brief.
And then we show it's not brief.
And you're like, well,
what if this is what we're at now?
It.
So that's where we're at.
We've gone from, I mean,
there's just a point where you have to own up to it and admit you're wrong.
It's okay.
If you're wrong, just admit to it.
Trying to explain my thought process.
Your thought process keeps moving the goal.
I'm not afraid of being wrong, but every time I speak, it goes,
we go another.
Okay.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Go ahead.
Let's be quiet and let Ren talk.
Okay.
So when I said it's on screen for one second,
I was referring to the screenshot that Mahler sent us in the discord.
It's on screen for two seconds.
Sorry.
And this one here that I'm looking at now.
I assumed while watching it that that was just a screen and you know,
that's on me, but you know,
I look at the depth of the face.
It's deeper and thicker than the, um, what?
Thickness of the laptop.
Like you can see like a brick wall in the background of the screen.
Just to clarify,
we're agreed that they show it and they show it long enough.
Now you'd like to discuss whether or not this is realistic.
I don't have, I mean, it's never been realistic.
I don't have the prop in a ruler with me.
I was going to say, this is tough to call on for how depth.
I'm just saying it's easy to mistake this as just a screen when the
dimensions are just off.
So you notice, so you notice the dimensions on the screen.
It's something you didn't notice this thing existed.
You, you, you, okay.
You know,
this is ignoring the fact that you just said it's never been realistic.
So at that point, this sounds okay.
So if it's never been realistic, what does it really matter then?
Well, I was just saying it's a staple of the franchise.
They usually show it and here they do, but the face also looks, you know,
CG.
Come on, dude.
Oh,
Oh my God.
They didn't make an actual mask making laptop.
A real basket.
Oh,
well, they fucking cheaped out those pieces of shit.
God damn.
And they also cheaped out on the rock and the cars.
Well, they couldn't,
after they hired Tom cruise,
they didn't have anything left in the budget for a real mask making laptop.
Especially after they, he broke his ankle.
The next thing maybe.
Yeah.
Yeah.
All right.
All right.
But whatever's next, go for it.
I mean, I just wanted to recap and say we established that Ren said that
they don't, they don't, they don't show it.
They do show it.
And I'm just going to chalk this up to you.
You didn't, you didn't pay attention.
You missed it.
Yeah, I missed it.
But, you know,
I haven't seen the movie since I made the video.
I tried to.
After I make a video, I try to wipe it out of my head so I can just move
on to the next one and try not to repeat things I've done.
And, um, you know,
well, just to, to bring you back a little bit,
you did say the film is objectively bad.
And so these points would actually contribute to that.
Yep.
Let me.
And so getting rid of them as we're wondering how long it'll take before
the objectively bad statement will be destroyed.
No, I mean, I've done thinking about it.
And I think, uh, that was incorrect to say.
I think objectively poorly written might've been more accurate,
or you could make a case that the movie is just objectively average.
I think, you know, I wrote that down.
I mean, I sounded good at the time and, uh,
your thesis was it's objectively a bad movie.
And I would,
I would go as far as saying it's one of the better written movies of 2018.
I thought it was really well written.
Wholeheartedly agree.
I'm glad, honestly, that, I mean,
if, if anything good has come out of this video, it's that, uh, Rags,
Wolf and Mueller, uh, decided that's like one of their favorite films.
We're going to go and see the other ones we haven't seen.
And I'm going to be watching the new ones in the cinema.
Thanks to follow up.
Rogue.
Rogue nation was my favorite before I haven't seen.
I was dude.
I was so excited that Chris McCrory and Rebecca.
We're coming back for fallout.
And, uh, and fuck it.
They delivered me anyway.
Anyway.
Yeah.
Okay.
So.
Would you like to talk about what you called a massive plot hole?
Around 11 minutes.
What did I call a massive plot hole?
Just for clarification.
So in the catacombs, um,
Hanley says the meeting is a trap.
The white widow has been working with the CIA this whole time.
Do you, do you remember that part?
Yeah.
Okay.
So, uh, first of all,
is there anything in the film that, uh,
confirms that the white widow has been working with the CIA this
whole time?
Yeah.
The fact that the, um, what's her name?
Sloan.
Is that it?
She says something to the effect that it's at the end, right?
No, I think it's, I don't remember where it is,
but there's,
there was an implication there to me where I picked up that she was.
She knew more than we knew she knew.
That's too vague.
Uh, I mean, I don't have an exact,
well, the fact that Alec Baldwin knew she was,
that the white widow was working with the CIA and that Sloan knew it,
go before Tom Cruise took off on the plane means that she had some kind
of contact with them.
She, she.
No.
You're out.
Why no?
I'm pretty sure that she doesn't mention the white widow in any such way
like that.
White widow is mentioned by,
by Hunley during his briefing to Ethan.
And there's nothing coming from Sloan.
Hunley is Alec Baldwin.
Alec Baldwin.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I like to use the character's names.
I don't, I don't say Tom Cruise, Alec Baldwin, black lady.
I, I, I refer to them by their names.
It's easier for me to go by their names.
Okay.
Huh?
Keep going.
Keep going.
Like the, uh, is, is your issue that something should have happened, uh,
with, between the CIA and the white widow instead of what we got in the
film?
I don't know.
I actually don't know what we're self pause going yet.
I don't know what works.
So, so here's the thing.
There's nothing in the film that's con that actually verifies that the white
widow was working with the CIA the whole time.
Uh, all we have is Hunley's.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
It's in the exact line from Alec Baldwin.
She's been working with the CIA the whole time.
Okay.
What's the context for that, for that line?
What, what scene is that line spoken in?
It's in the catacombs, right?
Catacombs.
Yeah.
What's happening there?
You remember?
Exposition.
Okay.
What's happening there is Alec Baldwin and Alec Baldwin and, uh, and
Luther and Benji and Ethan are all putting on a show to convince her
hug Walker.
Yeah.
That his plan to frame hunt is successful.
Okay.
So every line of dialogue that's coming out of those characters mouths is a
lie because he's freaking him.
Still knows that she's working with the CIA.
Are you telling me it was a convenient guess?
What?
That he knew that she was working with the CIA.
No, no.
It's a lie part of the lie.
So he didn't know himself that white widow was working for the CIA.
I'm saying he fabricated it.
So I'm saying, I'm saying that that line is, is, is, is there to segue into this
conversation about how the CIA got this dossier on Ethan Hunt that proves he's
John Lark.
But what did Sloan mean then when she said before Tom Cruise took off in the
plane, that she already had people on it.
Was she not assuming to the black white, an extraction team?
She says, she says, I have an extraction team with a G 27 prepared to take him to
get more.
There's a water board waiting for him.
Okay.
And then humbly, then humbly says you want to waste 24 hours that we don't
have to get information that we, that won't be reliable because it'd be obtained
through torture.
And then, uh, out of a suspect that we haven't identified yet because no one
knows what John Lark.
Tom Cruise references them as well.
He says that you can take the knocked out John Lark to your people and he's like,
you're not getting rid of me that easily.
Yep.
So then, uh, you have humbly say comes the CIA this whole time and that's
literally the only line that, that would supposedly, uh, verify that.
But the fact that everything that they're saying in that, everything that they're
saying in the catacombs there is a trick on Walker.
Okay.
But then at the end of the movie, a white widow Sloan and Tom Cruise are all
putting Solomon Lane in the trunk, transferring him to my six, which that
doesn't, that doesn't verify that she was working with them from the beginning.
Well, why would Sloan be there?
It's fine that they can use her as a broker.
I'm just saying that that's that the fact that she was working with not the
fact, sorry, the idea that she was working with the CIA from the beginning is not
fine still if there was, okay.
So there's a scene in Paris where Walker hands Sloan the phone, uh, and that
kind of like reveals he's a bad guy now.
Um, so if there was a scene like that where Sloan is meeting with the white
widow in private, then that would be something, but there isn't anything like
that.
There is a scene at the very end after the fact, not before or during.
Okay.
So, so you're, so he made it up and it's, she was never working with the CIA then
is never, no, it's never confirmed unless she was working with the CIA and it
would make no sense.
Okay.
So, um, when that is a pivotal part of your point to prove that it's a massive
plot hole, because you also mentioned that the white widow had the plutonium
in that video.
And I'm glad that you acknowledged that you were wrong on that, but it's in
your video.
Um, and that would lead, uh, the viewer with the impression, like if someone is
watching just your video, right, but haven't watched mission and possible
fallout themselves, then their impression is, okay.
So this white widow person has the plutonium and she's also working with the
CIA.
Why doesn't she just give the plutonium to the CIA?
The problem is that's not what the film says that is not that that contradicts
what the film says.
Okay.
So, so she was never working with the CIA.
Correct.
But she was at the end of the movie when they are transferring Solomon Lane
from, uh, to ma six.
Yes.
After the fact, but not after the fact.
Okay.
But it's easy to, and I'm sure I'm wrong.
Right.
I'll admit that it's, but it's easy to assume that, that, you know, Alec
Baldwin says she's working with the CIA.
It's a trap.
You go.
Okay.
The head of the CIA with her, working with her, it's easy to make the
connection that they were in context.
If you ignore the context of those scenes.
Yes.
But there's always, you know, a kernel of the truth and a lie in a good, in a
good.
Gotcha.
Okay.
Um, you're a real Jack Reacher.
Yeah.
But I'm just, I'm just trying to defend my line of thinking.
Like I'm not trying to say I was right.
Cause clearly I, oh, that's a goof.
That's a big old goof, but it is, but I'm just telling you my line of
thinking.
And, um, I'm just, that's all I'm doing.
Yeah.
I think we're supposed to assume the white widow, uh, deals with all
agencies and all criminals.
She's wildly connected.
Don't they say something like that at the beginning?
She's got connections.
She has, she has spies at every level of government in Paris.
That's why they have to halo jump in.
Didn't, um, I don't remember what is.
Was it Alec Baldwin? Um, he said, or no.
I think he might've been talking about, um, Superman's character.
Nevermind.
What was the line?
Uh, I was thinking of that part where they were talking about how she
was, um, with them the whole time.
But I think that might've actually been about Superman.
I can't remember the quote exactly.
It was when they were like underground.
That's what they've been talking about.
It's just this part of the life.
He, uh, he's an assassin.
He's Erica Sloan's number.
He's here because if you, if you defect or like go row, whatever, he is
here to hunt you down and kill you.
Extensive political connections.
That's something they say about white widow as well.
Um, yeah.
Uh, random thought, and this is probably something you're going to
cover, but I'm just so darn curious.
You bring it back a couple of times and you make a certain set of points
to start with it and then later on through it.
But, um, you, you keep saying Tom Cruise should have chased the guy
who stole the plutonium at the beginning.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
Where was he supposed to go?
Anywhere.
Just anywhere.
Just try.
So you just sprints in the direction and hopes.
Yeah.
I mean, 40 second head start is not a small head start, man.
That is a huge, but they're on foot and he doesn't know that you don't
know if they're on foot.
Dude.
Okay.
Listen, if I was, if I was, if I was at a track race and then this
guy had to go, uh, like he starts running before me and I have to wait
40 seconds to catch up to him.
I'm fucked.
How long tell me, tell me exactly how long does it take from Tom Cruise
getting booted off of his motorcycle into an escape vehicle?
It's like 10 seconds.
In the film, if you remember, and these are the apostles.
Their entire thing is staying secret.
They're like ex spies.
And they plan this.
I think they're probably going to have an escape vehicle of some kind,
but even, even if, right?
Let's just assume Tom Cruise sees a car driving off in the distance.
Like, Oh shit.
Gets in his car.
His own car.
Yeah.
And you can go after them.
It's like, that's one thing.
So he sees a guy running.
It's like, yep.
That's something he's like, he's got nothing.
Nothing to work with.
Actually, I actually have a question.
Um, you, you can, um, you commented that the London foot chase was all for
nothing because he failed to catch up to, uh, to Walker at the end.
You still feel that way, right?
I just,
I'm sure making them doubt it now.
So then, so then moving that.
So moving the foot chase or the car chase or whatever to the scene where
they lose the plutonium, but there's nothing new achieved.
They still lose the plutonium.
You just are 10 minutes further into the movie and nothing new has been done.
Do you think that's, that's better?
You think it's better for them to fail a foot chase at the beginning,
as opposed to later in the film,
the movie lost me kind of in that moment when they didn't even attempt to get
the nukes back because we're not talking small time, uh, danger.
It's, it's one third of the world's population at stake and he doesn't even
bother trying 40 seconds head, 40 seconds head start.
And they, they have no idea where they are.
They can't see the main.
I mean, you could literally just a little.
What about the idea that they could easily just get shot if they start running
in a random direction, hoping to find them.
If they split up, then they're fucked.
Yeah. Like I don't, but if I was a part of their team, it'd be like, well, now
we've got to regroup because we got nothing.
No leads.
Everyone gets in the car, go somewhere.
Try to go to the local Starbucks and hope that the nuke is there.
Just tweak the scene so that we get how you get a sound effect.
Oh no, we hear footsteps or tires.
So now we're talking about a different movie.
Well, it's just a tweak.
You don't want to make any sound.
Why would they do that?
If they're only on foot and Tom Cruise's car, then there's a chance he can
understand the tires.
They could have a bicycle.
Yeah. If, if in the actual movie, the tires screech and they still like stood
around doing nothing, your criticism would have been valid, but that's not,
that's not what happened.
That's not the point you were having to change.
You were literally having to change the setup of the scene in order for your
criticism to sound more valid.
Because as it is now, they did nothing.
As opposed to doing nothing.
No clue.
There's no clue.
Yeah.
I mean, what are they going to do?
They had a choice of running down, down the place.
They were just getting shot by the opposite direction out onto the road.
I think there was like a river.
Yeah, they just barely survived the river.
So it would have been a much more organic place to put any other action scene in
the movie.
They were also outnumbered.
They were also outnumbered by the apostles.
Okay.
But I don't know how many there are.
They don't know where they are.
Well, that's what happened in Mission Impossible.
No, he wasn't outnumbered.
I'd like to clarify.
Yes, he was.
No, he wasn't.
Why do you keep comparing this to a different movie?
Because it's in the same franchise of the movie.
That's not.
Okay.
Comparing it to Lord of the Rings.
That's not an argument.
Okay.
You want to talk about Lord of the Rings.
Well, to clarify as well that some people bring up the fact that the apostles
don't shoot Tom Cruise in that scene when they could easily have done it.
And I'd like to be like, the writing's even better than some people realize
that the apostles are specifically tasked to not kill Tom Cruise.
It's the exact same reason why.
They don't kill him when they're chasing him in the thing.
Or why the TIE fighters don't blow up the Millennium Falcon.
There's a reason.
Or why the Stormtroopers miss.
Well, you're talking about a new hope, right?
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I wasn't.
And definitely not the last fucking Jedi.
Right.
Yeah.
So this is the problem.
It's like everything's running really functionally that you're like, they should
have ran in a random direction.
Then the scene would be good.
I'm not saying random direction.
I'm saying it would be random.
It would be a random direction.
It would be a random direction.
It would be in the way it is now, but with a tweak in the movie, it would be
different.
Correct.
If the film, if the film showed a shot where they've got a guy that's clearly
holding the briefcase and he's sprinting off.
Sure.
Go ahead and start running after him.
But that they, no, they disappeared.
They vanished into thin air after they grabbed it while they were distracted.
Okay.
So why would, so it's all good.
No, it's not an argument.
What a fascinating criticism that holds no water at all.
It's a four V one.
It's really tough.
I got to say.
The argument stands on its own weight of which it has.
Yeah.
Like if you four were arguing that it makes no sense that he doesn't run in
a random direction, I would be stalwart in defending it.
Me too.
And if it's four V one is too much, you can leave whenever you'd like.
It was clearly written or made so that the bad guys get away and now Tom
Cruz has to get the nukes.
Which makes sense because that's the whole job.
Right.
But it couldn't be more transparent.
Tom.
This is Ethan.
He's a super spy.
Just give us show us him.
Okay.
I mean, it's beat up by an Asian dude in the bathroom.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Hold on.
You said that he's practically perfect in the film.
Screws up with the plutonium and in the beginning, he gets defeated by the,
by the Asian guy in the bathroom.
And then he also fails to catch up to Walker.
If this character were Ray, he would win at every single one of those tasks,
not practically perfect.
Sorry.
Yeah.
I mean, the whole movie is based on him failing.
So, but at the end of the day, he wins the end of the day.
He wins.
Come on, dude.
No, I mean, I'll give you that.
Okay.
I mean, come on.
All right.
Next thing.
Well, it's like, we're not going to get anywhere with that.
Well, we are.
We made loads of progress because this is.
Yeah.
There's at least three points where we've gotten you to admit that,
that you were wrong.
And that's, that's,
that's getting somewhere because you're making objective statements about the
film.
You're trying to objectively assess its quality.
And not only are you mixing in bizarre subjective complaints,
like this transition scene is going on for too long.
When that's totally subjective thing.
And then you've got more objective statements that are actually factually
inaccurate.
And so that's, that's a lot of the stuff that we're,
that we're trying to deal with here. But I mean,
the weird thing is that when you're complaining about moving a failed
chase to earlier in the film.
Um, like you mentioned that it would have been all for nothing in
London and it still would have been all for nothing.
In, uh, in Berlin.
Um, so that feels like a contradiction there.
Well, the point being that he would have at least just tried in the
beginning of the movie,
he would have gone and tried to save the world.
So he has to fail because it's the beginning of the movie,
but it's a great place to put the foot chase car chase or motorcycle chase.
No, because here's the thing.
So the London foot chase that we got, um, when Ethan catches up to Walker,
sure, he can't do anything to Walker and Walker still can't kill him.
But that's how Walker informs him. Hey, I'm, I'm Julia's guardian angel hunt.
Don't come near me. Know when you're beat. Okay.
So that's a way for Ethan to find out that the apostles, uh,
might kill his wife.
So there's something achieved there,
even though he can't, uh, capture Walker at that point,
but there is nothing new that the, uh, that a Berlin chase would,
would achieve the plutonium is still lost at the end of the day.
Okay. I just don't think that you should present information.
You just shouldn't devote too much extra time to it. If the,
if the results the same.
It's padding.
Yeah.
It's a string sequence. Yeah.
Well said. Well put.
Which are bad.
Also like, um, do you think that Ethan should have just let Walker go?
No, I mean in the, in that scenario, it's like, well, he kind of has to,
but your video said that he should have because they had a tracker and
Walker and that's what they, oh, you mean not chase him. Yes.
They have a tracker.
They could have gotten to him without him knowing they're coming.
Like, okay.
So in spite of the fact that humbly his last words to Ethan was way.
Got to pause. You got to pause.
You just made an argument for how, uh,
lives are on the line and Tom Cruise didn't do anything in the opening scene.
Now you're saying you should have chosen not to chase.
They could have regrouped right after they killed.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, you can't regroup.
Lives are on the line regrouping, planning, getting into all this.
Uh-oh. Yeah. Lives are on the line in both scenes, man.
If he catches Walker and we're still consistent because we're arguing that
there was no lead and now there is a lead there. Yeah. There's a lead.
Strongly. Yeah.
There's a tracker. He knows exactly where to go, where he's going.
Benji is Benji shouting in his earpiece, telling him, you're,
you're almost there. You're gating on him. You need to go this way.
Like that to me is a huge flag for you looking for issues rather than having
issues. No, I'm never looking for issues.
I mean, you've made up a whole lot of shit.
Well, I'm talking about the fact that you've pulled to conflicting criticisms
of the two same moments.
What I'm saying is that if we flipped both scenes,
you would now be complaining about both of them in both scenes as well.
I mean, it wasn't the tracker or backup plan.
In the tracker in Solomon. Yes.
I think they're talking about the one in Walker, right? Yes.
Yeah, because there's reasons. Sorry, go ahead.
It wasn't even planned really so much as a.
Well, they're supposed to hand him off to the apostle.
So of course they're going to put a tracker in him because they don't want
to lose him. Yeah. And they did it without hopefully Solomon picking up
that they did it. Yeah.
They've actually got him distracted as they're doing it because he's talking.
He's giving his little spiel to. Yeah.
They put it underneath the idea of taking a tracker out pretty smart.
To me, that seemed like a quick rewrite.
Like they're looking at the script and they're like, okay,
this doesn't quite add up. Let's go back.
There's supposed to be super competent spies.
That sounds like something. I'm talking about the.
This seems very in line with the characters and their ability to be clever.
Sure. Yeah. I mean, 45 minutes later, we learn after the fact that, oh, hey,
by the way, audience, we put a put a tracker on the old boy.
Well, you think that's bad. So how is. Yeah.
How is that against anything? It just felt like an afterthought more so than.
All right. So you don't have an argument.
But the point of it is that we get it from Solomon Lane's perspective in the
scene. And then we get the reveal just like Lane would have gotten.
Yeah. If we saw the whole thing play out from Simon pegs perspective.
Well, like I'm just picturing, uh, you know,
talk to his looks at a Luther and Luther wakes at him after he's put the
thing in so we could be like, oh, something's going on there.
You don't think that would be over.
It would be over. Yeah. But I'm just saying the whole,
it felt like a rewrite, like an addendum, like, oh, we got some.
That might be the case.
That might be the case.
Yeah. It's like the idea of throwaway lines.
That's not, you can't keep saying that.
I mean, if it's apparent,
then can you give us actual unfalsifiable evidence that it was a rewrite?
No. So then it's not apparent.
So if it feels like a rewrite is the argument, this, I mean,
it's such a bad faith assumption as well as your assumption that the cast
and crew never set out to make a good movie with this.
Yeah. That was, that's a pretty rough line.
Yeah. They just set out to make action scenes.
Didn't say that.
Oh my God. That's okay. Hold on.
He does follow up with that, but he does state straight up.
Literally.
Literally if it was their intense, then they wouldn't have taken care that
they did with the actual story,
which you are having a very tough time grasping at straws to poke holes.
Or do you even discover any plot holes at all?
It's like the story is so tightly constructed. It's insane.
And I would encourage rewrites by the way, it's insane.
It is insane to believe that they started without a finished script and
they ended up with a story as good as this.
Do we have a script? No. Well, we're going to Paris.
And yeah, just the idea that on set, they're like, fuck,
this doesn't make sense because of this, this, this.
And the director goes, and no one will notice. I hate that shit.
So if they rewrite and they go, no, let's make it make sense by adding this.
And it's like, does that work? Does that make sense?
Does would it follow that they would do this? I'm like, yes, yes, yes. Great.
I would encourage that process.
Hey, say what you want about Star Wars, the last Jedi,
but at least they had a finished script when they started filming.
Yeah. At least they stuck with her first draft.
Oh yeah. That's funny.
Maybe starting with a script is a guarantee of anything.
I mean, I, well, here's the thing.
I wouldn't recommend starting filming without a finished script because
there's so many risks involved.
But man, Iron Man one didn't have a finished script.
Ghostbusters didn't have a finished script when they started filming.
Casablanca is the same thing.
Are those films bad now too,
because they started filming without a finished script?
Well, their script was Blanca.
When you can't.
Are we doing this, baby?
Fucking nailed it.
So you keep saying that they wanted to film action scenes and not tell a story.
Do you not know how stories get started?
I thought we went through this already. Do we, do we not?
I kind of did.
Well, I don't know,
because it seems like you haven't really fucking grasped it yet.
I said every story starts with an idea.
Okay. So then why is it then when they started with ideas for action scenes?
That's bad. That's an idea. Is it not?
Yes, but they were implemented messily.
No, they weren't.
You have not proved that at all.
We were watching your video as you were explaining the plot as it progresses.
It made us like the movie even more.
I'm not trying to take anybody's enjoyment of the movie away.
You failed to do that. Even if that was your.
We're not saying that's what you're doing.
Okay. Okay.
This isn't a 45 minute long video.
This is a however many hours long stream.
You have the time to elaborate on your points.
We need you to do more than it's just implemented messily.
We need you to elaborate on that.
Well, I said earlier, like I knew going into this movie that the way they do
them is okay.
We want to do these action scenes and then we'll kind of cobble a story
around those scenes.
So it just felt like I keep saying transparent,
but Molly doesn't like that.
I like it. I like it fine.
But if you keep arguing that it is transparent rather than you felt like
you could see right through it, I'd be like, good for you, man.
And change anything because I felt like I didn't see right through it,
which means now it's a null and void criticism.
Well, okay.
How is it?
Well, we're filtering it through objective, right?
Like if you wanted to tell me you didn't like the movie, that's fine.
But if you want to tell me the movie is bad because it's transparent,
I'd be like prove it because I can just say the reverse.
But what I can't say that if you say something like John Locke shouldn't
have done X because of Y and it's true, I can't go.
Well, maybe I'll be stuck because we want to deal with like provable,
tangible, factual things, not like it's too transparent.
Like how do you even prove this?
And we've asked you, like, you know,
have you got a clip of someone saying it?
Have you got something to work with?
It's like, no, you just feel that way.
It's like, okay.
The director said himself that they knew they were going to have set scenes
going in like what does this.
Did Christopher Corey admit that there was a part in the process where they
realized that something that makes sense and they're like, yeah, fuck it.
No one.
Yeah.
And they were like, it's going to be overly transparent.
And it's a shame.
We'll leave it in.
It's okay.
No, he didn't say, oh, whatever.
Okay.
It's like I said in the video, he didn't know like Tom Cruise breaking his
ankle.
Like it actually a good thing for the movie because it gave him two weeks
time to write that kind of scene.
Yeah.
But to try and sort of maybe help you understand, like just if you give me
one of your favorite movies, just something that you've watched.
I can just, okay.
Well, every time I start like trying to get going to, I also get interrupted.
I mean, come on, man.
We're all interrupting when we think that anyone would start with a false
premise.
That's how conversations go.
Like if I said, okay, so you hate all movies, right?
Well, and then you go, no, no, no, no.
Like stop me if I start with a false premise and I'll do the same.
Okay.
Long run.
My favorite movies.
Is that what you asked?
Yeah.
Go for it.
Just give me a random favorite movie of yours.
Let's go cabin in the woods.
So that film is way too transparent because the characters are all so
stereotypical that even though they're trying to go for a parody, the entire
idea is kind of ruined by the fact you can tell that from the get go.
It's not a surprise when anything happens.
It's trying to insult the genre itself.
It's not very clever because it's so transparent that all of these
characters are made for this.
I'd say you are so smart and perceptive for picking up on that.
Three first time.
I applaud you.
Oh, wait, you didn't know that cabin in the woods was a parody.
What?
Why?
Where did that come from?
I like this is what you just said.
No, he's saying he knew it was a parody, but still.
So it was going to happen because of the transparency of it.
You get my point, right?
There's no film.
There's four.
So we would prefer if we stick to like things that are actually there that we
can, you know, prove or disprove.
And you can, you can end yourself.
You can like, if we're having a ones and zeros talk and then you end with
saying, okay, fine.
I just don't like the way they did it.
I'd be like, that's fine.
Yeah.
That's I think how most of this is going.
That's fine.
But like I said earlier,
no, I'm that's what I said earlier.
I think I was off earlier.
You said that it's not objectively bad movie.
It's objective, badly written and objectively.
Okay.
And I'm also open to having my mind changed.
I'm not, you know, sure.
I don't know if I believe that though.
The only, the only thing that prevents the conversation moving forward is if
you just go, okay, fine, fine.
That, that logically is sound.
Let's move on to another point.
Cause I still don't.
And then you can at the end tell us like if we've made you feel differently
on a subjective level.
Cause we're trying to keep our feelings out as well.
Like if you say to us, uh, the white widow was clearly working with the CIA
the whole time and I respond, yeah, well, I like that.
Like I would be doing a disservice to you.
I see.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And you're welcome to call me out if I do something like that at some point.
Okay.
Um, well, this is a little pause point.
My dog really has to go outside.
Is it okay if I let her up?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Go for it.
Okay.
I'll be right back.
French vanilla situation.
I'm not.
Good reference.
I'm not talking too much.
Am I?
I think you're supposed to be.
So it's okay.
You have all the references me rags them all for me.
I mean, what's.
Hold on.
What's your channel?
Uh, it's, it's just, uh, well, it says blessed Southpaw lesson.
I changed it.
I changed it as a result of a 27.
Of course.
Okay.
I'm subscribing because I, I like your argumentation here.
I want to see what other, oh, you've only made three videos.
I want to watch them.
I made more, but I like I've privated them because they're like really old
and thanks laughs at you for 30 seconds.
Yeah.
Just a reaction video.
I actually watched that.
It's funny.
It's a great laugh.
Yeah.
You would be Southpaw who was on eFap now along with Theo.
Mola has a master of bladders.
Yeah.
I mean, it was a seven hour.
Did any of you guys go to toilet during that?
I didn't know.
I didn't either.
No, I, I, uh,
I've been drinking two bottles of water.
Water's good for you.
I drink lots of water.
Yeah.
You know, it's also good for you as a rhino milk, spider milk.
Yeah.
I hear that Tom Cruise had to try spider milk to tell the future and know
that he wasn't going to catch up to Walker in London.
It's all high in nutrients.
Yeah.
No, I have pizza and I'm happy about it.
Hmm.
Can't go on with pizza.
As long as they're not putting pineapple on it.
All right.
No, fuck no.
That's why I've been quiet for so much of this because I've been eating my
pizza.
Yeah.
And like, you could tell there are certain points where something is said
that me rags.
I will want to go.
Oh, believe me.
We're going to get to the straight lane.
Should have been fucking kicking Ethan in the face point because I mean,
in my video,
I insert Spider-Man 2 scene where JJ,
uh,
JJ Jameson like screech laughs at that because it's just,
that's probably the meanest point in my video because that is just such a
patently stupid argument to make.
It's not as bad as,
as like,
um,
peddling misinformation about the film.
That's, that's what gets me is, uh,
like that's to,
to make up a plot hole from whole cloth is,
uh, pretty fucking bad.
But, um,
I think that the worst suggestion that he made was, uh,
Lane who was in a straight jacket should just kick Ethan in the face and
make him crash his car.
I remember that.
And then lecture him about saving what he loves or some shit.
Well, out of curiosity,
are you going to bring up some of the,
the jokes from the video?
Uh, not, uh, not in my video, uh, no, but in,
but here, do you want to talk about in the chat?
We can talk about it.
Well, I mean, probably wait for me to come back, right?
Cause the thing is,
I'm sure how far we'll get with that other than it's the,
the harsh.
I mean, there's a couple.
I kind of want to ask him what he thinks the problem is with a 56 year old
man and a 35 year old woman.
I think it was just set up for a joke, you know?
Yeah, that was set up for a joke.
So I know, yeah.
And you know what that joke was?
It was Dom's Michelle Monahan.
Yeah.
And 40, but here's the thing.
They broke up in ghost protocol.
Ghost protocol came out in 2011.
How old was Michelle Monahan when that came out?
35.
Well, you say his joke isn't consistent.
Hey, it's not accurate is what I'm saying.
It's consistent.
But I mean, that's the thing is his jokes are not accurate.
He jokes about Anton Yelchin getting like run over when he actually got
pinned and crushed and asphyxiated.
Which makes it so much better.
Yeah.
No, no.
You know what?
It's a great joke.
It's, you know, it's also a great joke.
This, this person died in a plane crash just like John Lennon.
See if you can just, you know, make references to celebrity deaths that are
totally factually inaccurate.
There are times where people can do it and it can be funny.
I'm not going to say it can't be funny.
Like beside, well, that's subjective anyway.
Like whether or not you fucking laugh is just your deal.
But the idea of just referencing a tragic death.
I mean, 9-11 gets made into a joke regularly.
It was shoehorned in though.
It'll be interesting to see what he has to say, I guess.
I'm back by the way.
I've gotten some of that.
Yeah.
So your Anton Yelchin reference.
So Anton Yelchin, I'm not sure if you know how he died.
You know, it involves a car, but he, he got pinned between his Jeep Cherokee
and a brick pillar and he was crushed and asphyxiated.
And it wasn't instant.
Okay.
Very exciting.
Yeah, it is.
And so you mentioned that it also gets run over like Anton Yelchin
when she like rolls over the roof of Ethan's car.
Yeah, I mean, well, here's the deal with that.
That's a close reference, man.
It's just an undercooked joke.
That's all it is.
Yeah.
I mean, do you, because this is totally like I could, I could counter this
argument myself, but I'll still ask it.
You think it's a bit harsh.
Sure.
But the, you know, tragedy, the, the bigger the tragedy, the, the bigger the
laugh.
Right.
The greater the suffering.
I'm surprised you just pulled that out.
I mean, I'm sure you keep me around for a reason.
Wait, did you manage to actually remember the mission possible?
No, that is too complicated.
Oh, anyway.
Yeah.
You made the Philip Seymour Hoffman joke as well.
And I got my take on it is literally just that they're really easy jokes.
And it's just kind of like, all right.
That was more so like, it just sounded disrespectful.
I just don't think it was funny.
Sure.
That's fine.
You could probably go around rags and wolf and, you know, you've made some
jokes.
Well, the thing we've totally made harsh jokes.
Absolutely.
And I, the, the, the Antoni Elchin was one was undercooked.
I even Googled celebrities that got ran over and I was like, wow.
Wow.
Really?
You, you, so then you could have, I've got, I've got an alternative idea.
He came up with Paul Walker.
He didn't get ran over, you know, the closest was Anton.
I was whatever.
I'll just put it in.
I mean, the alternative would have been just, she gets run over.
Like you didn't have to shoehorn.
You didn't have to put in an inaccurate reference there.
It could have been, he runs her over.
Sure.
Yeah.
You, you just really wanted to have a, someone got run over joke, right?
That was probably it.
I mean, dude, my, my sister when the, so she's eight years older than me, but
when she was four, uh, she got, she actually got run over by a car.
Now I'm not doing this a guilt trip you, but like maybe I could say something
like, and then this person, like my sister did when she was four or something
and it'd be a little fucked up.
Yes.
But there'd actually be some sort of accuracy there and it'd be like an
inside joke, I guess.
But the anti and Yeltsin reference was just weird.
My girlfriend got hit by a car.
No.
Everyone's nobody heard that.
Everybody's surprised that girlfriend, but yeah, she's fine.
Her knees a little messed up.
How recent was it?
Oh boy.
Like 2011.
Okay.
That's the base.
That's old news.
Nearly, nearly a hit and run.
The guy would have drove away if there weren't a cop there.
Okay.
So anyway, yeah.
Oh, you know what?
I just saw it on screen.
So I have to bring this up.
You can pay admission impossible fallout to Jack and Jill.
No, no, I just put up a clip.
Did it wait.
Did I?
Yeah.
I have to, I have to say like, oh, that's a low blow.
Jack and Jill is just garbage.
Jack and Jill is one of the worst movies ever made.
I'm sure it is.
I haven't seen it and I never will.
Hopefully.
You've never seen it.
God, no.
I feel like you like should now.
Yeah.
Like for the crime of making this video, you have to watch Jack and Jill.
Yeah.
This is your penance, man.
I think I've already gotten enough penance to be fair.
No, not enough.
I think so.
No.
Well, anyway, do you want to move on to, uh, the, the car one you mentioned?
The car one with, with Lane doing the old kicker route.
Oh yeah.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, um, to spice up the car chase when, um, when Hilsa is chasing after Ethan, uh, on
a motorcycle in, um, lanes in the, in the car with, uh, with Ethan.
So, um, you mentioned that despite of that scene, Lane, who I should mention is shackled
up and in a straight jacket.
Should have tried kicking Ethan in the face, uh, and would have likely made him crash his
car.
And then Hilsa would have, uh, easily caught up to them and then gone over and killed, uh,
Lane.
Yeah.
Do you understand?
Yeah.
I mean, it was just a suggestion.
It wasn't, it was, it was more of an example of like, let's just, you know, maybe think
of something to shake up the scene, not do exactly as I say, have, have a character act
before you continue.
Do you want to, do you have anything to say?
Like, do you think that that was just that all pans out?
Not necessarily.
I'm just trying to, cause I was comparing, well, in the context of the video, I'm comparing
that action scene to the car chase from rogue nation, which I think is a much better chase
scene.
So I mean, cause it had a little bit more going on with it.
And I'm just saying, maybe we throw in another element to spice it up a bit.
Yeah.
And Lane kicking though.
That's all good.
No, it doesn't have to be what I said.
That's just an offhand example.
Well, you know, white bot are making a suggestion.
If you agree that it's bad.
Well, what if, you know, Solomon goes into a rage seeing it's Tom Cruise and he's like,
oh, Tom, he's going to go.
He's been making this plan.
His character is very, he buys his time.
He definitely plays the long game.
He's cunning.
He keeps his emotion.
We got to rewind, rewind, rewind.
Remember he wants him to be John Locke.
He's trying to frame him.
So if anything, you should be relieved that Tom Cruise is driving that car.
And this is all setting aside the fact that he just got shot and Tom Cruise is the one
trying to keep that from happening again.
So he has a vested interest in not pissing off Tom Cruise.
Yep.
Okay, sure.
But it's a terrible, terrible suggestion.
And he had awful thing for him.
I'm thinking of semantics from my video.
No, it's not semantics.
It's not semantics.
Literally suggested it.
My point was that the action scene from Rogue Nation was better.
Okay.
It's not an argument though.
You got to stop taking up other pieces from a previous TV.
Will they evolve into more than just what they initially start out as?
Give me a minute to explain why that chase scene is so great.
Okay.
So Rogue Nation, sure.
It's got flashier choreography.
You've got the car like driving through these tight alleyways and very precise
driving.
And there's that cool spinning trick that Ethan does there.
Yeah, the six spinning move.
And then they're driving on these.
Okay.
That's all well and good.
However, because the geography of the scene in Fallout is different.
They can't have that.
So what they have instead is interesting, like an interesting conflict that the
scene represents.
Are you following?
Because what's happening here is Ethan needs laying alive so he can give him
over to the apostles and get the plutonium back.
The entire point is to get the plutonium back.
Okay.
Now, Ilse is allies with Ethan.
She's not just like an assassin that he would be like having no qualms of
killing.
He knows her personally.
And that's why he hesitates when he's like, should I run her over?
And then he decides to do it.
But basically you've got an ally of Ethan's who now has a different bull
that's mutually exclusive to his.
And she needs to kill Lane so that she can return that return home.
Because the idea was she was working undercover for two years with Lane.
She outright states this in that courtyard scene where they meet afterwards.
So she has a great reason to try to kill Lane.
And Ethan has a great reason to keep Lane alive.
And the whole point of the scene is that they are on opposite sides here.
And they have mutually exclusive goals.
You don't think that that's a good conflict?
You don't think that the scene's intense?
When I was in the theater, I wasn't feeling anything.
And you know, that's me.
That's not objective or anything. That's me.
But the thesis of your video was that Mission Impossible Fallout,
you sincerely believe that Mission Impossible Fallout is an objectively bad movie.
Well, you said that that's changed now, I think.
Yeah, I mean, yeah, I've given it a good thought.
And I don't think it was correct.
But would you still hold that it's poorly written objectively?
I think the dialogue is bad.
And I... Yes.
Okay.
You think the dialogue is bad?
He's the hammer. I'm the...
What is it? He's the hammer?
No, no, no, no.
It goes something to the effect of you use a scalpel.
I prefer a hammer.
Wolf, you're actually 100% accurate.
Yeah, that's the old line.
They use that line in like a Medal of Honor trailer in like 2011.
It says something you hear a lot, and it's a pretty generic line of dialogue.
Is that an inaccurate line to describe the two characters?
Just because it's accurate doesn't mean it's good.
Just because it's accurate doesn't mean it's bad.
Ethan's very precise. Walker is very blunt.
He's a blunt instrument.
And the histories as well represent that.
I really like the library says like, you're known for killing all of the people you sent after
when we know that that comes up as a way to protect his own identity.
Before we move on from that, Mueller, you know what I caught a couple of viewings ago was,
you know how there's that mission briefing and Belfast at the beginning.
They show a picture of these CIA guys standing over the dead bodies of some apostles.
All of their faces have like black bars over them,
but you can clearly make out that one is Walker with the mustache and the haircut and the build and whatnot.
This is a nice little detail.
It's mostly the mustache, though.
Yeah.
The mustache that destroyed a movie.
He's bringing mustaches back.
Expensive mustache in the world.
Yeah.
I don't know.
You use a scalpel.
I prefer a hammer.
I always liked that line.
I don't see any problem with it.
I mean, I'm going to use that Mike.
I'm going to use that in my story.
It's about, you know, police officers.
And one says, you know, the law is a couple.
So it's a simple line that, you know, just.
Is there anything else that made you feel the dialogue is bad?
I mean, I can't remember offhand.
I haven't looked at the movie since I made the video.
I initially had a thing planned where I was going to have a montage of the dumb lines.
And then I was going to cut to the line from the Medal of Honor trailer.
And if it's in another thing, does that make it bad?
It makes it generic, not necessarily bad, but a little.
So hold on.
How do you know that they even knew what Medal of Honor was?
Much less seen it.
It's a common term used.
It's not like, you know, and out of the ordinary genius line, it's.
It's just.
I don't think anybody said it was such a.
I don't think that ever came up in conversation.
I don't think I've ever heard anyone say that was a genius line.
I don't even, I can't even.
I like it.
Particular one liners.
I'm just trying to figure out why you think it's bad.
Yeah.
I like it.
Cause it's really cool.
Because here's the thing.
Generic.
Mad or bad.
Sorry.
Just because something is unoriginal doesn't just therefore make it a
negative.
I never said, wow.
So profound.
It's like the last Jedi saying failure is the best teacher.
I, I, I never said that no one ever said that.
It's just, it's a, it's a neat little line that sums up the dynamic between
those two characters.
That's it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It establishes very early on what these two characters are like.
How different they are from each other.
And also like you mentioned that you felt like rogue nations is better.
So like, is it really a valid criticism to compare a,
an action scene that's good to a scene from a different movie that you
think is better?
Yeah.
Because these movies are about one upping themselves and having a better
action scene.
Yeah.
Yeah. Because these movies are about one upping themselves and having a
better action scene than the previous.
What happens?
What happens if someone hasn't.
Action sequences.
I think that.
Because you're that didn't see it better in one movie doesn't make bigger
doesn't mean better just because I mean,
even if they try to one up themselves,
it doesn't mean that one upping it necessarily make it a better film.
You need context.
You need like a in universe justification for the scene to be taking place.
Maybe sort of help them get there.
Like, you know, you, you, you make the statement that the, uh, the drop,
the airplane drop is, is the best action scene in the whole movie.
Would you stand by that?
Me or Southpaw?
Yeah.
You.
Yeah. I like that one quite a lot.
Yeah. So do I, but, uh, my favorite is the bathroom one.
That's a great one too. Yeah. I like that one point being that if the logic
is the,
wherever the best scene is as well as the,
I'm talking specifically in the movie,
remember you say something like, uh, you don't open with the best one because
then it makes the other ones like they'll suffer for being worse as action
scenes. Like, first of all, establishing which is better is pretty hard.
If they're all extremely well choreographed and filmed, but, uh,
the least favorite in terms of stunt and craziness for me is probably just,
if you can count it as a full on action scene, just the car with, with,
with lane. Cause I'm thinking more about the characters than I am about
the action compared to the other scenes.
That scene isn't ruined by the fact that I've seen better action scenes
before it. If you understand.
Yeah. I'm not going to say that, that,
that action scene has like, it's, it's just this amazing car chase,
but like what's going on, uh, like, uh, substance-wise is so much better than
most car chases that I see.
Yeah. And it's something that the aeroplane drop and the bathroom thing don't
have. We don't have character conflicts going on. It's just these characters
are trying to, you know, make the best of the situation that they're
currently in compared to the lane car chase where there's lots going on.
Cause it also is the one who's orchestrating this.
And he's having to defend the villain from the previous film that hates him.
So there's lots of like, Oh, shit.
The final fist fight between Ethan and Walker at the end isn't like
as impressive as the bathroom fight, but it's still good.
You know, these guys are, are tired.
They just, uh, survived a helicopter crash.
It's great.
There's, yeah, it's like they're fighting like real people would fight in those
circumstances and it's on the side of a cliff.
It's fucking awesome.
You know what? You're, you're still in good company around cause YMS thinks
this movie's bad anyway.
Oh my savior.
You got, you got that.
Now, look, I'm going to be honest with you.
Okay. I'll admit I misused objective. It's fine.
Um, I, I'm not afraid to be wrong.
Everybody's wrong.
It just sucks to be wrong on a, uh, this scale.
Okay. I didn't like the movie.
That's not going to change.
And I, I mean, it's been three hours.
I only have so much.
I, I, I don't even care.
I just don't care.
I'll admit to whatever I, I it's, it's too much.
It's a lot.
You know what I'm saying?
I mean, you say you'd like to sort of stop at it.
Well, we can keep going.
If the chat wants to, you know, hear more, if that's what the people want,
then we'll keep going.
But I am, you know, I made this video a long time ago.
I'm, I'm just, I'm over it.
I don't like the movie.
Everybody else loves the movie.
I'm wrong.
Fine.
It's fine.
Well, you're not wrong for not liking it.
It's fine.
Well, you know, well, I got some things wrong and things to that effect.
It's clearly upset a lot of people.
That was never the intent.
That's never my intent.
Yeah.
It disseminated misinformation.
It was inaccurate.
Yeah.
I missed up.
Yeah.
And, and, and that's why that's why I said, yeah,
I said that there was, there was a two explanations.
You either didn't pay attention to the film or.
I missed it.
There were two explanations that you either, uh, yeah, yeah,
that you either missed it or you just, uh, um, um,
We're lying by omission.
And I'm saying, I think that you just weren't paying attention to the
film.
I've never lied in a video, you know, anything I get wrong is
intentional.
But I was going to say something, but I forgot.
Damn it.
That's fine.
Yeah.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
It was just a piece of.
A piece of stuff.
It was just a piece of shit.
It's a piece of shit.
I'm sorry, but it was a piece of shit.
It was a piece of shit.
You have to say something but I forgot.
Damn it.
That's fine.
All right.
Then.
I got daddy.
IMS on my side.
Like we can keep going.
That didn't exist.
And to justify what he thought.
So.
Yeah.
Using a street.
Screen rent article, screen rent.
It's garbage by the way.
That was a.
Yeah, actually I do kind of want to ask,
why would you even bring that in?
Like it's.
No way anything about screen rant. So I know I don't mean I mean just the process
You're like I'm going to counter an argument from an article. That's not even accurate to the film like it's weird. I
Just wanted to get to the bottom of what was happening in the movie. What's the whole that didn't exist?
Did what exist the plot hole you you you said this is a massive plot hole, but I like we literally just went over
Why it wasn't a plot hole and you conceded?
No, apparently it didn't but it's like I think I said in my video this movie and my brain
Simply just don't co-mingle. I've watched complicated movies. I keep up with
Complicated TV shows and I don't have a problem. But for whatever reason this movie
In myself just don't synergize at all
So you probably made a video on it then that's unfortunate
I mean, I my brain doesn't synchronize with a lot of stuff, you know, but I'm not going to
Make videos about it if I like something and I and I know that there's a reason why I will if I don't like something
And there are great reasons why I will but man if I just
If I have a difficult time with coming up with reasons as to why
And because my brain just doesn't co-mingle with with it. I
Don't care about it. And so I'm not going to waste the time and effort on
Elaborating why yeah, it's it's the same situation I have with near automata
Like I recognize the game is pretty good from for what it does
But I don't personally like it. I can't get into it
But I wouldn't make a video on it because it would have no little objective truth to any of my opinions on it
Yeah, like, you know, you're allowed to not like good movies, but it's still a good movie
Okay, I mean you sure yeah, but I really just want to put it behind me. I'm
You know, yeah, it's all good. I think we've pretty much gone across what we were trying to go for
Wants to go through more stuff, you know, I'll sit here. I'll do it. Well, is there any big things you'd like to get covered? I
It doesn't even matter because you know, I
Have I have a question just regarding like the escalation factor
So you suggested that like you should that the halo jump should have been moved to later in the film
Where?
Well within the you know, it's like you say you have to change the whole movie, but then the current structure
Putting it you could potentially put it before the helicopter chase going from
Wherever they were, I think is London to cashmere. What would Walker still be the bad guy? Yeah
They you know, you make up some dumb reason that well why they have to do it. Why why would uh, okay
Well, the thing is that in that scene, you can't help Walker in that scenario, right?
Yeah, and Elsa isn't going to jump out into a thunderstorm
Benji won't do it Luther won't do it. Why wouldn't Elsa do this? I think Elsa actually might no
She is smart. She is not going to jump out into a thunderstorm. I
honestly thought that
having
Henry Calvary get knocked out by lightning didn't even need to be there. Like I thought just the jump on its own
It's good enough. No, no
Yeah, it's cool and all but the the fact that Ethan has to prevent this guy from dying before the mission even begins
because otherwise
Sloan is going to rein his ass
Yeah, that's that that adds extra tension
Like if you if oh my god, wait, wait
So you don't even think that there should have been like a danger in the scene that it should have just been a string
Scene from the plane to the ground
No, there's a good point actually, yeah
Okay, okay
So we need yeah
We need more than just a really impressively shot halo jump like it's great. It's well shot
it's very well shot man, but like we need a danger we need like some stakes there and
You you lose that if you move it from from that's like to cashmere
Because Walker's no longer on their team if they try to do it in London
Well, there's still like no good reason for them to do it
But also you've got Walker and it's sorry you got Lane and and Benji and Luther together
Traveling by van because like why would they have Lane skydive into into London?
And again Benji and Luther just wouldn't do it
I like do you guys honestly think that Benji or Lane would want to halo jump?
anywhere, I
Don't think that they could do it
I don't see him in that role. Yeah
So then if they do it in London because they're not gonna have
Hey, you would have
Lane traveling by car with
With Benji and Luther and then you'd have Ethan and Walker up in a plane you see what I'm saying here
It makes no sense. There's no
Justification in universe for it to happen later on in the movie
But there is one early in the movie and this additionally it serves as a hook
It's a it's a hook for for the audience like Frini mentioned, you know
Like it really sucked him into the movie because of how awesome it was. Oh, yeah, sure
I can see that did that for me to rags wolf mauler. You want to chime in? I mean, I love the whole thing. So
Yeah, well, yeah, I really liked it all
Just that shot when his face comes into
Frame three feet away from the camera. It's great. The first time I saw that I thought that was so good
but
You know, I I thought that action scene was so good that it overshadowed the other scenes in the movie
Mm-hmm
Well, I'm just I don't mean to like to beat a dead horse or feed a fed horse or whatever
Phrasing we're using nowadays. It's just I I did have to point that out
There's like there's an in universe justification in context behind every action scene that takes place here
um, yeah, just just I guess like the only thing is just because we all have to do this just to
Be a bit more careful with the actual
source again
As wolf said at the beginning like he or near the beginning that there was something people were calling out him out for about
Submarine related thing in Aquaman like loads of the comments be made of a follow-up video
Acknowledging he made a small mistake that then led into several more floors and it's just like an amendment that
We all do I my TFA part one. I mentioned three criticisms that are legit just bad moves on my part
I've made mistakes. It always happens. We're not looking to like burn you at the stake
We're just curious how you're gonna you know react to it
That's all and if you acknowledge it or not because what we usually get or at least what we and get is people saying like
Well, that's just your opinion
It's like it's not though
well, I mean it sucks everybody gets some gets things wrong and
I'll use all this as a lesson to improve of course
but
It's impossible to not mess up but yeah, all you can do is try to improve I
Respect the hell out of you for coming on here in a 1v4 scenario and being willing to admit that you're wrong
Thank you. Yes, it's a lot more than
Yeah, yeah, I'm not afraid to be wrong. It just like I said, it sucks to be wrong on a scale like this
Mm-hmm. Yeah
You know, I mean in my video
I mentioned that it's morally okay to to be wrong because you have like incorrect information
I was one of the people that was fooled by the Covington Catholic crap
And then what's that the you don't want to know?
I
Basically people found this video that seemed to show some kids wearing MAGA hats
Mocking a Native American man. Oh
That thing yeah, so I was I was fooled by that initially and then I saw the whole video and I was like god damn
I fucked up there. I was so wrong
You know, but it's okay
But the thing is that you know
I made several Facebook posts about it before learning that and then I had to make a Facebook post saying I got this wrong and
I owned up to it and it's okay to do that
It's not like it's just you know, a lot of the guys that you FEP covers will not admit that or will
Refuse to come on here because they would feel outnumbered and I think that it's great that you you did, you know
Come on tough and this is not you could say like this is just because you have big egos
But like I'm not sure about wolf, but I know me and rags would happily jump into
Rags and is wet it would both did we go did we jump into fucking wet? Yeah, that's the fucking man
You might want to rephrase that
Rags are wet rags is a weird grape. The point is that we would probably if you said there are four youtubers who've
Gone into your video that that have many people thinking that it's now bad and they're offering you to have a chat about it
I'd be like sure I'll jump in it's annoying if the four of them
We're letting me speak and constantly coming over me, which which I'm not gonna say has never happened in this conversation
It can happen. But um, I'd like I said, I don't I wouldn't have a problem with it being for personally
But I can totally understand why someone would find it troubling which is why I'd be like, yeah, I respect you to do it
It's a bit daunting. Oh, I'll admit. I
mean, I'm you know, you're a completely different audience than what I
Or I guess content creator because you go for the length of it and you're like
You have faith that people are going to sit through your video and and watch it and me I go
I got to keep it fast and snappy to keep them keep them engaged mauler goes for length
Specifically though thoroughness it just goes in it just becomes long because he has to talk about so many things
Yeah length is an unavoidable consequence of doing a different thing. I
I
Only covered 20 minutes of your video like I only show
And then responded to it because if I if I had to show the whole thing it would have been a good four hours long
minimum
But I just tried to stick to the most important stuff and
And just have 20 minutes and then there's 40 minutes of me talking
That's that's all like if I if I made a terrible video if I made a video
several points
Then you know, I would have to admit that was wrong
However, if I was making a video about why fallout is good and I went into detail
If I did like a reverse mauler and did like a five-hour long video on like just praising
Fall out on an objective level
And someone took issue with that and they had an efap like podcast and they wanted to have me on to debate me
I'd go on because you know, I I truly believe it's it's a good film and you can very easily defend it and
You know, I I do believe that your belief was sincere but
Yeah, which okay would pretty much conclude the mission impossible saga. I think if there's anything else anyone wants to say
What a doozy, huh?
Beautiful. I mean seriously like and this is not this is not some kind of jive
Sniper your video like I actually I'm considering it being my pick for the best movie of 2018. I'm not sure
But having had to go into the script in-depth and find all these things that connect everything up. I was like shit, man
I'm trying to think of what else in 2018 would be to it's like
There's a couple of the yascha lighters. Yeah, that would be that would be one suggestion. I
Thought the favorite was good. I don't know who's seen that here
I want to see it and
There's like as much as I like Infinity War
I don't think it can hold up the writing criticisms like all the other films are able to
Yeah, no, I think this has been productive and and entertaining I've
I'm gonna vote as long as people were entertained. I mean, that's that's the number one goal, right?
Yeah, as much as it was for me if they're in a team that's
There's a plus
So my plan is free. Let's just read out the super chats
we've gone and then let you guys talk about your channels for a bit if you'd like to and I
Was going to check out a video both. I mean we've reached nearly three hours and this was what you could call an emergency
If app we weren't planning on it was just so that we could give us a time. We'll get everyone together
I was looking forward to returning fap under five hours smaller. You're getting lazy. I didn't expect us to take that long a mission impossible. I'm sorry
I mean, I I did ask you
Trust me what?
Yeah, I asked you if there was I asked you if there was gonna be a time limit on the mission impossible discussion
No, no
We never like time limits on things if they're running but we do get to choose whether or not to start another thing, you know
Yeah, sometimes it course
But yeah, anyway, um, unless there's any thing anyone else wants to say about mission possible. I'll probably jump into this
great movie
Aces, it's the first the first right thing that he said
Sorry, sorry, right
So, hey more loved your Aquaman video and didn't even get bored the third time almost as good as you fall out 76 one
Thank you very much worked hard on both of them rags and wolf. Hey one
Great new video rags. Really liked it. I guess that's a genuine one
I disappeared for an hour last stream and that's when you cover h bomber guy. I feel silly for my super chat
I think someone did have a super chat late into the previous stream
And they're asking us to cover the thing and we were like, oh, yeah check six hours ago. I think was the joke
Fuck me, I can't keep doing this Akiba with 49.99. Thank you very much
If it's like causing you harm, you don't have to say
Where's the gay frog man? I'm afraid ringy is not Oh God people were calling him froggled croak in the chat earlier
You see these do it a redesign for his art and there's no there's no frog in there I was so sad
I hope he has a frog badge on his character. That's all you need
I'm free
So there's gonna be a couple of super chats that are gonna be playing around with some of the stuff said today
Don't take it too seriously. But uh, well it says five of you. That's more than several names to remember
That's half the characters in fallout ban him
More I just finished your Riley video. Yeah worked really hard on that one
Enjoying it. Nice to see you here. Ren always got some respect someone even get started. I don't remember
But I think it was an accident the first time around someone
Someone's gonna have to give me an efap law expert. We need a lore master
We need an archivist a librarian the keeper of the lure
Someone was respecting me. Let's let's hear it
Hey nice to see you here. Ren always got some respect for someone who's willing to take the on their critics rhino milk for all
Good rhino milk, my boy
Every time we have a new guest to be like how they get a reactor rhino will
uh
Well, I want you to know that I would drag my balls through a kilometer of glass just to hear you do booty claps
into a walkie talkie
All right
Have you guys heard of watched b b dobbins for the win? Is he one of the
He's one of the guys that went kind of insane over the past couple years
Well stuff is great
Well, he started getting way more into politics and shoving it into his videos where he didn't belong
because he used to make really good content and then
Oh my god
I don't even think I would really disagree with him politically that much
But I don't like it when people force their politics into their shit
So I ended up so here's the thing. I fucking hate trump
It was it was on that level
It was on that level but it was like every video for like a year. I think he stopped doing it
Um, but I don't know. I haven't watched him in quite a long time. He he hasn't done it anymore
I can attest i've actually edited his most recent video and i'm editing his next one as well. Oh
Oh, oh he hasn't edited his own videos
Well, I mean
You need he needs the master to step in and take care of it
That's all there is to it
How do you become a master if you don't?
That's
Go on
Makes sense. Don't do it yourself
No, no, no, he needs he needs saying he hired he's hiring the man
Yeah, let's do the work for him. Yeah
Oh, that's not learning from us paying someone to do it for you
Uh
In an example of star wars long men bad
I watched a two-hour deconstruction of korea from cotol 2 and then a 15-minute video of cotol 2 versus tlj that said nothing
It can happen. I mean it's pretty if you have a movie review, for example, and it's five minutes long
And we're like oh
They're gonna have to talk fast and they're gonna have to condense a lot of shit quickly to be able to say a lot of
Significant things unless they're doing the whole
I like the action the actors did pretty well
Um, I think the story was okay the way that they did it and you get a lot of like, uh, this movie is well received
You uh, bring it out for for me
You free
My point is just that yeah, like there's a there's a straw man that goes around that mullah
It's like oh mullah won't watch a video unless it's x amount of time long. I'm just like no i'll give him a chance
It's just jesus christ. If you release a four and a half minute take on hill house as a series
I don't know why I should watch that. I'm just like what could you possibly say?
other than I liked it
Short man very bad short man. Very bad. Absolutely. Was that the netflix miniseries hill house? Yes
Okay, I missed it if a 10-hour series is a miniseries. Actually. Yeah, does it count as a miniseries?
It's one season. They're planning a second one
Oh band of brothers was I believe 10 episodes and that's classified as a isn't it band of brothers one season though, right?
Yeah, I didn't know they were doing a season two though for hill house. Yeah, they're in production now as far as I know
Okay, is it connected or is it going to be like american horror story?
I think it's going to be disconnected actually from what I've heard. Okay, which is good the same
Wait, will they have the same name then they can't
I'm, not sure how that's gonna work actually
The haunting of oh the hill house chronicles. It'll be it'll be the haunting of something something
That's probably what they'll do
Anyway
If you could hand someone a noose and tell them to do their best impression of robin williams, who would it be? Wow
Probably me huh guys
Yeah, no. Yeah, I actually like it when people keep making videos, but uh
Prefer that they're not you know
Down with thrusty
You know down with thrust you must do if you know be dobbins
I don't know speaking of hanging. Have you heard of downward thrust?
No, is he doing okay like his channel? His name is tonal bloke. Excuse you. Have some respect
Have some respect
Respect tonal
Uh, yeah, uh, just just he's just he's like the efap punching bag his videos are hilarious
Yeah, I think i've seen one of his videos and I had to tap out
I mean, yeah, as long as you don't listen to him you'd be fine. So I don't see what the problem is
Like he's I just wasn't interested
There's plenty of reasons for that I think but yeah fair enough because like he's uh
He's just amazing is is the word for it. Does he know of your existence? Does he know you watch him? I don't know
I don't know. He were back when I still had a twitter account. He replied to a tweet I made
I don't remember what the tweet was or what he replied with but he might know at least about a couple of us
I don't know if he knows about our coverage though
I'd like to think he does but if he doesn't it's just it's it's like worlds apart like in his world
He's making these great breakdowns that people take very seriously in our world. He is like
A joker like a jester sort of thing. Like he's hilarious. This is him. That's that's tonal bloke right there
This is a very freakishly accurate drawing to what he looks like and you might be like wow
You're being really harsh to the guys and you're just making videos. It's like oh, he's sold so much misinformation
Uh, his name is tonaled. Is that his real name? Well, his name is he he says his name is tone
But that's not a real name
And that quote the most relevant games that stand up today are the ones that gel with our current gameplay trends
That's a literal quote from him
Yes, so many good ones and that founder of the intellectual gaming community in one of his videos he literally put in total
Total he literally put it
Downward thrust intellectual gaming community
Like these are literal things that he's done. I don't even think I would call myself
The guy just makes up
incomprehensible word salad videos I was about to say did it take us three hours to get through five minutes of one of his videos was not
Oh, man
It's like every sentence the hits just keep coming man. Like I'm looking forward to us covering him again
He's so much fun. I do too to put this into perspective. He mispronounces words all the time and he wants he once mispronounced
arguably and pronounced it arguably
So we are we all started making a bunch of pirate voices and that led to me and mauler binge watching the entire Pirates of the Caribbean
series
Tonald is intrinsic. These are arguably getting worse and worse
These are arguably getting arguably one can say this series is a sinking ship
Arguably, we should have just stayed with the first movie his recent blunder is that he said dmc is repetitive the new one and uh,
uh
It's a button masher
Yeah, and then they found out through his gameplay that he was playing on automatic on I believe it was on easier difficulties as well
So it's just like human mode. You know, is that what it's called?
Sorry
Yeah, I think it's called human mode, right? I just opened it up yesterday and it was I played 30 minutes of it
I really really enjoyed it. That's what we're talking about
Good old tunnels
He's yeah, he's just he's just a mainstay here. He's wonderful. And if ever he do it, do you understand him guessing on efab would be
the greatest thing ever
imagine watching a video with tonald's commentary with us like
Oh, it's
Do you think he has those random pregnant pauses even like his general day-to-day talk?
Like we just have to wait a really long time for finish a sentence
I hope so
Where is lord doomcock please having guest again also, uh, have fun on the stream can't stay
We uh, we're probably going to get him back at some point and um, I still want to have like a an episode
maybe where we have geeks and gamers and world-class, but it is sure that is at the same time
Because uh, mr
Wolf went on his show and we always said we try and have him on efab at some point
It would be fun to have them both because they're both pretty there's some lore behind my interactions with geeks and gamers
Yeah, there you go. And we can talk about captain marvel with them. They well, I don't think they're all that he talks about though
like literally
five videos per day
It's definitely honestly man
like if you just made one
In in fairness in fairness. I didn't know it beforehand
Um, but it's not just the same guy who makes videos on geeks and gamers. It's like three or four different people
I know
but still it's like world-class bullshits gave my captain marvel a five and I was like
Out of five that's generous. No out of time. Oh five out of which you might be like, isn't that fair? I'd be like no
We haven't seen it average tomorrow at noon I get please the pleasure of seeing miss marvel
Well, yeah, i'm gonna i'm planning a video that's gonna rip into it down to the core. It's awful
It's no longer unbridled meh, right? No, it still is
Oh, okay, but the film is still awful. It's it's weird to try and explain it but like you can even tell in my delivery
i'm like
It's just it's the way I try to explain it is it's really boring about really being bad
Like you should the film is like trick people into thinking is mediocre by being so placid
You should uh title it an unbridled meh, but deliver it like a rage and it'll sub our expectations. Yeah, there you go
Yeah
I just finished the last efap and yay another one
Fried chicken milk. I'm not sure how that works. Um greasy. Will er ever join efap more?
Um, I mean i'll i'll keep pestering every once in a while. See if he breaks eventually he'll be cool
Hilarious video on riley mauler. Here's some rhino milk. Thank you very much
Good job. I'm vim and tied to review wolf. Love that game. Keep up the good book reviews. I love it, too
I love it so much. I literally know nothing about
Um generally confused why you all hate on rogue one so much
It's got its flaws, but it's on an objective level. What are its problems not needing to me made its objective
Sorry not needing
To me made it isn't objective
I'm, not sure what that means maul. You should do bvs too. Um
I've always said rogue one's my favorite out of the disney movies, but it's still a mess
It's like the first two thirds of the film are so boring, but the final third is just so great
It's like it's like the opposite of glass, you know
like like
Glass has this amazing first like 30 minutes and then then the middle's like, okay, whatever and then the final act i'm like, oh god
I actually thought the the beginning
Third was really great
And then well really good and then the middle was pretty
Excellent throughout it's just the instance that they started killing david dunne was when I was like, what the fuck
you know what you know what bothers me is that uh
his son joseph, um
He he like he does that thing that they do in fallen kingdom where where they go like
You're trying to take care of her. She's a clone and and what what joseph does is he like goes in between?
uh
uh
The beast guy and then I think uh his dad
and then explains
uh, his his father was on the train that mr
Glass derailed and I was thinking wait a minute. How the fuck did kevin not figure that out himself?
The information's available on the internet. That's how joseph found out how have like 19 years passed and he hasn't like looked it up himself
Because I guess that depends on what personality is controlled because there's like 20 different personalities, right?
And they all work at no point in the in those 19 years like he never
He ain't hit beasts google. I mean, I don't really have a problem with him not figuring it out
I don't even have a problem with that twist
I but I really love unbreakable. You're never going to hear me
The best movie ever by any stretch, but I really really love that movie me too. I did at the end of glass
Kind of felt insulting as a fan of unbreakable
You know what glass did to me was uh, it was sorry. I did to uh split what the last jedi did to the force awakens
Like I don't want to see that film anymore because of what comes after it. I don't know if it was that bad
Like I well the thing is split has this cliffhanger ending you want to see what happens next
But what happens next is fucking garbage unless you turn the film off like 30 minutes in
Yeah, I mean i'd still watch all three of them together but glad that ending to glass is what kills it for me
Yeah, it sucks because I was loving it all the way through until
The final fight where they just fucked everything up
There was the secret clover society that knew about david dunn but did nothing about it for 19 years
And you know, I would have been okay with the secret society shit if they alluded to it
But they didn't they clearly just added that in at the very end because
That's another yeah
There was there was no string scenes to establish it
I thought it was really fucking funny when they have that scene where everyone's in a restaurant
They wait for the one person who's apparently not in their team to leave
And they're all like now it's time for a secret bit. I was like guys. There are better ways to have meetings
Yeah
It's weird
That movie feels like it really should have ended as they escaped and then we got another movie after that where they actually
Were trying to fight each other throughout the whole film
Why not just an entire film of david just trying to find the beast?
I would have been cool with that
Why not trilogy first movie is that and it ends with them all getting caught second movie is all in
hospital with them breaking out at the end third one is the
climax of the trilogy, I don't know because I I love the idea of mr. Glass and
Um the beast teaming up that's a really cool idea
But they just really didn't follow through with most of the shit they were trying to do
Good old shamamalam and mmm
Oh shamalon you you build up my hopes
You you like make me think oh, hey shamalon can still make good movies and then he makes another one
Oh, no, no, there he goes again
Can we get that sweet two streak? Yeah, I I uh, I can't really do shamalon anymore
I wouldn't call it like a fucking one like yms did because that's just
That's good stuff in the film
I'd say it's like a five
Yeah, yeah, it's just that I probably go with a four until rewatching it and then given like a solid thing
It would have been like like a solid
Uh eight had it uh remained consistent in its quality throughout all three acts
But I mean in a final act if the final act was better
Then I would have given it like a seven and would have been like, okay
This is a good trilogy, but otherwise it's like a really good duology with a really
Really mediocre. It's not very good. So I I um, no, it's biology. No, it's chemistry
I've actually cast split in glass out of my head cannon. I'm just gonna watch on break stand alone. No splits
Why do you want to get rid of split?
Again cliffhanger ending. It'll make you want to see what happens next what happens next sucks
Oh, do you mean in the same way that me and wolf kind of knock off pirates too because without
Pirates three parts too broken
But it doesn't exactly have like a ton of threads left with pirates two isn't even at that good of a movie
It's just like it's okay, you know, but then pirates three came along and
It's like what the fuck did I just watch?
That was a that was an event and it was even worse and then five was like what what on earth happened?
Yeah, oh speaking of pirates. Um, what's her fucking name?
um
Amber heard amber fuck amber heard
Oh fuck her. Oh, yeah. She uh, she she uh, totally
She's a scum fuck human being
Just another reason to hate aqua man. Okay. Well, it's been proven like with video evidence from johnny
Depp surveillance cameras and with a ton of eyewitness accounts. Have you seen it?
The amber heard total. No, I haven't seen it. Um, but i've read articles on it. The amber heard
Completely and utterly lied about abusing johnny depp or about johnny depp abusing her she was the one abusing him
So she ruined his career essentially
um over a fucking lie, so
Amber heard go fuck yourself
No, I genuinely hope you have nothing happy happen in your entire life from this. No, we have to believe women. Oh, hi kinks and gamers
I've been hey
Jeremy we have to believe Jeremy. How's it going?
Well, um, honestly the i'll probably be reaching out to you for the next efap now
We'll see if we can get you and uh, maybe world-class bullshit is on because we've got the perfect fucking video to cover
We're not going to spoil it
But it'll be one that you guys will totally want to have a response to but i was going to say uh
I'll try and kick on with the um
The super has ever
So sorry good. So i'm gonna carry on with super chat. So what do you want to say?
Has everyone here seen the new end game trailer yet?
No, nope. Yes, I did now. Do we want to do it? I'm like watching we can finish the podcast with that everyone
Um, then i'm i'd i'd rather go into in-game cold. Oh, okay. You know what? Never mind. That's that's fair. I'm on the same page
Yeah, okay
so this is from um
Staff mitchell and i'm guessing he would have had a super chat in the previous one
He said wolf misunderstood my question. I wasn't asking why he dislikes new vegas
I was asking him to qualify how it's of objectively poor quality provide evidence
Love the rest of you. He ends up saying love the rest of you guys though
Did you miss my response to that because I responded to that during that efap?
Like I literally said
I don't even know if I said objectively it's a horrible game. I don't remember what quote you're going off of
I think he said it was in my e3 2017 video or something, but I genuinely don't remember
all I said was that I
Didn't really like it, but I haven't played it in forever. So I don't really remember a lot of it
Aside from that hated the gameplay
I don't know what else to tell you. I said that in the last episode. I just want to highlight
He ends it with saying love the rest of you guys though
It's okay enough people hate me it's fine. I hate myself too. Yeah, hopefully that's the answer he's looking for. Uh,
Oh no, unless he's in chat
Wolf I got your book and read up to chapter four besides having to look up the rivulets or rivulets
I like it so far. I'll continue it after work today rags. I enjoyed your video today during my lunch break
That was from james moore. Hooray
Cool cool. Cool. Glad you liked it. This stream is disturbing my piece. It's got to be shut down
The film doesn't care to explain the motivation of its characters. Why should you care about the characters?
I think that was a reference to the first half an hour
Oh alita
That might have been it. I'm not sure that sounds like it
Yeah, uh, I was gonna make a super chat about wolf not liking alita, but it sounds like he's already sufficiently besieged. Oh
Yeah
I heard that he hates that. I heard that movie one. He says there's no redeeming spices
He wrong thinks on it
But I just okay, it doesn't matter what I say does it
I'm, sorry. What did you say? It doesn't matter what I say. I'm, sorry. What did I say? I I say, oh, hey
I'm disappointed in this movie. I don't think sucks
But I think i'm disappointed in it and I don't think it's very good
And everyone takes it as you hate this movie. You think it's a piece of shit. I hope you're hung
I'm, sorry. What did you think?
I'm not light enough
That poor man, uh, here's my obligatory efap donation. This is definitely my favorite podcast. I'm always happy to donate
Thank you very much. Uh, hi mauler. When can we expect the next unbridled rage?
Looking forward to hear you talk terminator for an hour
The next one i'm expecting it halfway through next week. I'll be done with captain marvel
I got delayed because I came up with like
2000 words worth of mistakes that I found in extra in the movie. So now i'm like
Throwing all of it into one big video. That's
Difficult to put together as well because i'm trying to get as much footage from trailers and stuff that I can and matching it
The scenes and stuff but it should be next week is hopefully when it'll be out
I'm curious man, because like when I saw the movie, I was kind of like meh on it as well
Like I I thought I kind of liked it perhaps
I wasn't sure and so I want to hear your
Observations to give you an idea like I came out thinking it was pretty bad
But meh, I think I put like a tweet about that fringey thought it was um, okay
I mean him i've been talking a lot about the movie. We're both concluded that it's
Possibly the worst in the mcu outside of iron man 3 and that's almost not even i'm not even sure that's provable
Like objective wise because I fucking personally despise iron man 3 quite a bit
But in terms of structure the writing for will building characters and just the plot it's all fucking hideous mess
Um last time you mentioned it you said that black panther was worse. Yeah, i'm not sure about that anymore mine sense
Yeah, I noticed you didn't name that so
Yeah, uh fringey thinks that it's it's a close one
And i'm like, yeah, it definitely is but it's hard to pick because they both do all the same stupid shit
I had an extended discussion with my brother. I think yesterday, uh about black panther
that's like his second favorite mcu movie and uh,
I I like he he wouldn't relent on the um, the ritual combat
aspect he uh
He thinks that like his his argument was basically that the uh, like it's a tradition, I guess and they adhere to the tradition
Uh, and I just didn't really have much of an argument for it. Like
Oh god, people pointed out that it's the same thing with aquaman
I didn't even really realize it when I was watching aquaman like I oh shit
Yes
And when people started pointing it out to me and they were like, I can't believe you didn't talk about how they have pretty much
the same society as black panther and I was like
Oh shit, they kind of do because black panther's super fucking forgettable
I remember
Correct me if i'm wrong, but we had like a it could have been sin since video originally on on mine
But bringing up that it's tradition does not counter our point. It never has
Like under his point has never been you know what? This is dumb. Uh
Because it's traditional like like the idea that we're talking about the fact that they're doing it is stupid
It's like yeah, but it's tradition. It's like the tradition is stupid. Yeah, but it's tradition
Like oh just racist against fish people i'm circumcised because of tradition
Really?
Yeah, I just I just I couldn't really move past it
Uh, I just I mean he in general thinks that your video on black panther was bad mauler
Like he likes a lot of your content, but he uh, just thought that you're you were being
You know, a lot of people are wrong about black panther
Is uh again the black panther was probably my most criticized, uh
video and the majority of the criticisms
Never well, I say majority and never okay the criticisms never talk about uh, killmonger
Because it's indefensible how shit he is as a villain for his origin and everyone's like no
It's fine. I like him
It's like it's the my biggest criticism of the movie is probably killmonger the society stuff. Uh, I think it's pretty stupid
A lot of it's pretty stupid. There's a lot of stuff in there. It's pretty hard to um address without a little bit of head cannon
but um
Yeah, and how to charless sucks
And his his quote unquote arc if you could even call it that is discovering his dad lied for no reason
It's just the film's a mess and then it fucks with the mcu quite a bit too. Um
And they wasted uh
Andy circus as well, which is
Why why do this why he was like the most interesting thing about the film for someone whose last name is circus
He'd better be in some fun roles
Exactly the poor guy just can't ever get a break most of the time whenever he's not in a fucking green screen suit
The movie's in sucks
Like I've got a friend who really likes black panther and even he was like, yeah
I think there's probably a deleted scene where they actually explain why they kept it a secret because it does seem that they've just missed it
Because uh, maybe we got to wait for that 80 hour version of black panther. The best thing that i've heard, uh is the
They didn't want to bring him back because he's like half wakandan half
Outside wakandan blood and they don't want and they want to keep it completely isolationist and I was like, yeah, that'd be a cool
Reason it's not in the film though
It's just like the floor is taken away they're like
It's like there's no scene you can point to where that actually is said
and that's a shame because I think that that one line would fix a lot about kill manga, but uh
They didn't and then there's the whole you know, like he takes half the movie to play around with andy circus for no reason
And then kills him
It's like why why aren't you just killing him and taking him straight there? What is what is the point of all this other shit?
Remember he has him on his team
Then he lets him get involved with all this trade stuff and he gets captured and then he has to save him in order to kill him
I know it's tough because black panther sucks, but you do remember i'm talking about
I've been trying to erase it from my memory. I just whatever someone reminds me
It's like well, I like your videos, but the black panther was bad
I'm just like think more about black panther come back to me because like that video wasn't casually made
You're just racist. Yeah. Absolutely. The original fall of the of reach messes up the entire halo reach cannon. It wasn't that good
You realize the original fall of reach book was released before halo one, right?
Like literally it was released before the first game
Maybe the fucking how the fuck can you say that the book?
The original book messes with the reach cannon reach missed with the original book slash game cannon
You literally don't know what you're talking about. Was there cannon before that thing that they're referencing of any kind
No
The fall of reach book was released like I think it was a month or two before the first game came out
Like that's literally wrong unless he's talking about the fall of reach mini movie
In which case 343 kind of did fuck that up, but that's like 343's mantra
They just can't do anything without fucking it up. All right, the fall of reach came out, uh, october 30th 2001
Yeah, it how could you say the book messes with the cannon of the game when the game came out almost 10 years after the book?
Yeah, and then you're literally wrong came out in november of that year
So about half a month later about well, he said he said it messes up the entire halo cannon
So i'm not sure how can it mess up the whole game?
You either did not read the book did not play the games or you are only going off of reach and don't know anything else
You're literally wrong
No, I don't think when the book was being written. He was working alongside the boys at bungee as he wrote it
Is that correct? Yeah, he's the reason why the book exists because the bun
Bungee wanted like an origin story for the chief, but you don't need to read the books to understand the first three games
We're not talking about the 343 games where you do. Yes. Yeah, that's a big problem with 343 games
People actually defend that shit. I know i'm one aware like people tell people tell me
Me the one who's like literate like there is a literal library sitting behind me. I have almost 400 books on my shelf
I read every day all the time
They tell me that i'm just too lazy to read and it's like that's no that's not how this works
You're just racist we can just add to every one of these you're just racist
um
Yeah, do you want me to uh, there's a super chat that's essentially plugging your book. Do you want me to uh,
Go through there. Would you like what you prefer wolf?
Yeah, you can go through that doesn't matter. So
Uh wolf book is released on amazon for 15 dollars called iridescent
By bailey joseph gravel. So if you want to find that, uh, I don't know if you want me to link it
Oh fuck you're actually the only person I know
Maybe not the only you're one of like three people i've ever met who's actually pronounced my last name, right?
Oh, do people say gravel?
Yeah
Or in some cases it's gabriel. In which case it's like you're you're you're adding a letter and rearranging three others
How the how the fuck my my last name is brahm and uh, it felt like yohana's brahms and people constantly say bram
He drives me up the fucking wall
Yeah, i'll um, i'll make sure there's a link in the description of when this is up on moolah
But yeah, you can find it's probably is defined, right?
If you just look up iridescent on um, amazon
And you go to the book tab and it's the one with the white cover. There you go
Yeah, all right. Actually, yeah, i've got the link now. So if you want to go and purchase his
Is would you call it a masterpiece wolf?
No, no
Thinking about it now. I actually like have my own objective criticisms of it. I'm still proud of it
But I would there's things I would
Um, I would change about it
uh
Jokey then um halo reach was the best halo game hashtag change my mind from a storytelling perspective
Bungie did better than any of the other games they've made
Wrong. Oh, no, I think the first uh, I think the first halo had the best story
Uh, I would also disagree with that. I I would say I would say the best story is halo, too
Um, if we're talking about best characters, that's hands-down oot. There's literally nothing else you can use to refute that
um
But reach definitely no
because its characterization was shit
And its story really contradicted a lot of things from the original halo canon
So I want to know the the length of my addition to that that I can give
I don't know. Uh odst is uh
Uh, is it colonel something fury or something his his ability in halo wars that's really like annoying because it's expensive
That's that's what I have to contribute
What are you talking about? Oh colonel sanders
You would transform into a bucket. It's like fire or flames. What's his name?
He's like the old man who's has the odst inhaler cutter. That's the one it's not fire flames at all
Captain cutters who you were talking about just highlights by halo doll
Uh a serious question for ren and southpaw if the rest of the efap cast had rhino milk powers
And you two had them to milk them to save america. How would you do it explain your process?
Say the question one more time. So I know this is one of the rules. Yeah
Well, this is a serious question for ren and southpaw
If the rest of the efap cast had rhino milking powers and you two had to milk them to save america
How would you do it explain your process?
So uh last jedi joke rhino milk
No, actually
There's a lot of lore there
Okay, go on. It's a confusingly worded question because they said if we had rhino milking powers, how would you know?
Yeah, I think I think he means like rhino milk powers as in you guys have milk in you
It's the same milk as rhinos. I don't know. I mean that makes sense. Yeah
Is the goal to make the most milk?
I didn't say captain cutter was in reach through the inhaler wars god
Anyway, um
How how I would do it is I would uh, I would go up to you guys
and then I would uh
Take take a bottle an empty bottle
And then I would look at
one of the one of the four
One of the four tits in your pubic area tag me too, please then squeeze it and then
Drink it straight straight from the bottle. Yeah. Oh jesus. We're talking about the thing from last chat. Yes
I was so confused for a second. I was like the
In our pubic area and I was like what yeah, I called it the the four pube tittied milk monster. That's
Okay
Reach had better storytelling as in there was less of a need to reference outside materials to understand what was going on
That's wrong again
What are you like literally prior to 343's involvement?
You did not have to read the books to understand the games. In fact reach actually has uh, the character dr
Halsey who is only in the books. You wouldn't know who she is
Beyond the books reach is the first one that included something from the books that you
Had to read the books to understand. It wasn't a big thing
Like it wasn't like a huge issue with the game. It was like, okay, it's a doctor. She knows who Spartans are whatever
But that's literally wrong
I've seen like, uh
zero punctuation
He apparently thinks the first three halo games are hard to understand. I think he's an idiot if that's the case
They're really really really fucking easy to understand
Like you'd have to be a retard not to understand them
That's a that's a bad word. You're not allowed to say that one anymore
Retard retard retard retard retard retard
Yeah, it's fine. If you do it that way because it like combines it all into one big long word. That doesn't make sense. So
That's okay. Do that from now on. Okay
Oh jesus. Uh, hey guys. Love your content. We'd love to come on sometime. Keep up the objectively good work. Oh
Say that I had a hard time following the plot the first time watching mission possible fallout
But I was rather drunk on mead had no problem second time nord mead's hard shit
Fair enough
Uh, what would make your videos better would be to add timestamps maybe do that in all your future videos
Times i'm not sure who that's directed at it begins at 0 0 0
0 0 and it ends do they mean like timestamp for the movie in for what you're referencing at the time
Well that might i'm not sure if that was directed at me
Probably not but like in my video. I actually had timestamps for every clip that I used from ren
Just so people could like go back and see if I was taking them out of context
That's fair
Um, just you know, just a way of like i'm showing my work, you know
I'm not doing what uh, what tro or quince reviews do
We're fine with it if you do it chronologically at least have some structure
But when you literally just chop it up into pieces and throw them all over the place
Just like what the fuck do you remember how long it took us to find the clip they were talking about with rags?
That's that's the thing that I was doing with with ren was uh, I I didn't like address this video in chronological order
I had like a structure to it that required kind of like
Cutting it up all over the place, but that's why I one of those those timestamps there, too
Uh objectivity is proud of you guys glad to see a part two with southpaw on it get in beautiful
Uh, go crazy wah wah wah wah wah go stupid. Uh, go crazy. Yeah, go stupid. Wah wah wah wah. Is that a reference?
Um
No, I don't know
Uh, I missed some crucial details the first time I saw fallout and thus was a bit lost
However, there is a fine line between the film doing its job and my attention span
I don't blame the film if it does explain it, but I miss it which by the way
There is something in captain marvel that I thought was a flaw
And then uh, I got to rewatch it and I realized it wasn't because there was a throwaway line
weird how much throwaway lines, uh can rescue a script because
The interesting part is you're like, well, it may have been a throwaway line, but I missed it
So it's still like something they should have worked harder on but then the next guy is like, what do you mean? I heard them
Sometimes sometimes the throwaway line can fuck up your script even harder for instance. There is no way out of this cave in crate
Yeah
Bring your references all the time, which is uh before the sahara was a desert
Oh, man, that's acrobat quite a bit
Yeah, good. Good job on that. Well if I hadn't even like considered looking that up
It's just I was like, well, well, how long is the because I was
I genuinely didn't even know that the sahara was not a desert at some point
So I was like, huh?
Like I didn't even think it was a criticism when I looked it up
I was just like I was genuinely just curious
And then I looked it up and it was like the sahara desert has been around for seven million years and I was like
Okay
You know, they thought it was a cool line they were like that's a cool line before the sahara was a desert that is cool
It's like yeah, like I genuinely didn't go into it thinking it was a problem. I just was curious because you know, um
Uh, you know how there's like fossils in the antarctic where I guessing before like panjia broke up or whatever
Um, there's like fossils of leaves and shit
So it was once pretty lush and I thought it was like the same thing and it kind of is in a way different
Circumstances, I was just genuinely interested in it and then I looked it up and I was like, oh so before the dawn of man
That that hurts things a little bit
Vito just said captive bobble made me a feminine
when uh
when uh in my video when i'm talking ring scenes I bring up that not having a
Such a scene a transition scene can really hurt a film like dark knight rises
Um with with bruce obviously and then I also said aquaman in the kingdom of the deserters as well
Um, like how the fuck did they get out of out of that thing?
They got him through like a this slide that led into a bottomless pit
I'm still trying to figure out how they
Got another plane and got all the way to italy from the middle of nowhere in the shadow. Aquaman's amazing
I don't I don't want another scene like that because then they would just have another fucking pitbull song playing
Fringy was actually having trouble deciding if aquaman or captain marvel awis. I felt bad for him
I said I thought captain marvel was worse, but i'm actually not sure because
Because I even as much as I don't like aquaman the way you make captain marvel sound
I mean at least aquaman has jason mamoa and he's
Captain marvel's got this problem where it'll tell you a thing is the way it is and then you go
Okay
Well, that doesn't make sense because of this reason and then you think about it again
You go it also doesn't make sense because of this and this and oh jesus christ. No, and then like
several pieces here and there can erupt into like this whole web of
New issues it creates by existing
Aquaman has the uh, the cicely chase in spite of black manta's retarded, uh character design. Um, it has
Fuck it's got that beautiful shot where?
Uh, he and mary like dive into the trench and they've got this flare and they're like surrounded by like oh, yeah
That was a really cool shot. Like every time I saw it, I was like that is really like
I saw that film in imax dude, and that was one of the most incredible shots. I think i've seen in any movie from last year
just
Fucking crazy. Well done
Yeah, there is a lot of I mean some of the cgi looked really really video gaming
But there was there was some parts where I was like, okay
James one did really cool with some of the visual really good rather was did really cool
It it really no it like it really is like at
Like for like yeah, there's some ugly moments, but for the most part
it's a very beautiful film, uh that I I just I admired like the visuals aspect of it and I think that uh,
had i'd not been
Uh as attached to star wars as I was I probably could have uh praised the last jedi more on that front
But I don't have an attachment to the dc movies. They suck
I don't have a detachment to aquaman as a character
He sucks and uh, I saw the film and I love the visuals, but it was just yeah
You're looking forward to the new generation where captain marvel leads the avengers and aquaman leads the justice league because
I can't wait man. I can't wait. She's such a leader
You know, I wonder I hope to god
like I I probably not even gonna bother watching the next aquaman movie, but
They better get amber herd out of there. Just replace her with
Anyone how about replace her with giant debt, but he's playing the same role
That could work actually you can disappear into any role after all
That would be really funny replacing amber herd's character with johnny tip
Oh a mod of mine. Just let me know as well sahara
The actual name is derived from yeah, like it comes from arabic and it means desert
That's just kind of funny before the desert was a desert
They wanted to be so cool with it, didn't they?
They wanted to be so cool
Uh rags congrats on the aquaman review. It was great except my shackles also action man bad
um
Yeah, I always thought the rags take on aquaman was better except for the submarine criticism
It was good that he made a follow-up for that though because he did well
I see something long and hard and I just lose all rational thought I can't
And it's full of semen so that doesn't help things
Uh, can't wait for broom boy's fate in return of jar jar. Oh totally
Thank you for discussing fallout
I originally had no interest in seeing it ever but after the last defab I gave it a try and I absolutely love it
I have now discovered a new favorite series
I think it's actually
Like I you know
Ren your take on this can be whatever you want
Obviously, I just I think that it's actually reinvigorated mission impossible fans and the irony is like what this is number six
Yeah, that seems to be the consensus on it. How many series get crappier and crap
Honestly five kind of reinvigorated it for me because of
Inclusion, I think she's just such a great character that adds a really fascinating dynamic to the story
um
so I I just I felt like uh
With with her coming back to fallout. It was you know, oh cool
She's she's coming back and she played a good role and um, I felt like
You know overall chris mccory has done a great job with with the movies he's done so far. I'm glad that he's making uh another two
um
I I have high hopes for for uh for the mission series
I'm not expecting the next movies to be as good as fallout because mccory himself has stated he
Doesn't think he can he can top it
um
and if they want our games can
Pre be just as smaller games smaller stories can be just as effective as a big one like fallout
I'm not necessarily talking about about smaller. I mean like uh,
just if he just goes with like a smaller story rather than trying to top the
Um grandiose aspect of fallout then that could still work
yeah, I mean as long as the story is good and the
action is like well shot and well edited and then I'm not going to care like
Uh, there there could be like fights several fight scenes in mi7 that aren't as good as the bathroom fight scene
But as long as they aren't shot like taken three, then i'm good
As long as they're shot we can all agree on that
Yeah, I don't think you're gonna find too many movies shot worse than taken three dude taken two
I didn't mind as much but taken three. I I got a headache from watching it my god
That's like I think it's the one film. I actually like physically
Hurt. It's like one of the only films. Liam Neeson has been in that he couldn't save the other one being a million ways to die
In the west. Oh god. I'm so sad to see him in that movie. I was like, no
Once I saw um, was that um, fuck what's her name? Um,
Leblancic I god damn it. I know she was in mad max fury road
Charlie's theorem. Yeah, once I saw her put a flower in Liam Neeson
Oh, yeah, I was like what what does the world come to?
Although honestly, it's not the worst thing to ever happen from
For Liam Neeson. I'd say that the character assassination recently was
Yeah
That's a whole other topic
I was gonna say like Liam Neeson thought a bad thing forever ago. Let's cruise and felt bad about it
V just said they won't make captain model the leader. It doesn't work thematically
Uh, that's precisely why everyone's upset by the idea because uh, the point is going to be that iron man and cap
Getting ousted because their stories are ending which is fine. I just hope they end well
And uh, the new front runner for marvel is going to be captain marvel
Because she's she's super powerful super awesome and they're all excited about it
I'm pretty sure Kevin Feige has made statements in relation to this
But yeah, the idea is going to be that they're going to coalesce around here
And I don't know like controversial take maybe endgame opens with her dying. I don't know. Maybe that works. Maybe that's better
suggestion
No, nothing
No, not all of it we can keep some of it
I mean, fuck I I like the idea of dr. Strange like getting into a leader position
To try and get over himself a little bit
Yeah, but uh just having captain marvel jump in there i'm just like
We'll see we'll see what they do
uh
What about the elevator scene in michael bay's tmnt? I am not sure that is a response to
I haven't seen that movie so
String scene possibly like I haven't seen that movie ever but I saw the clip. Oh, that's when they start beatboxing, right?
They're beatboxing. They're banging their their weapons together. It's actually kind of a pain. It's you know, devoid of context
It's it's kind of cool. Like if the idea is they're headed to some battle, which it looks like because they're all geared up
Um, and this is just something they're doing to shoot the shit as they wait like that's that's pretty fun
It's a nice little moment. Oh and to clarify, uh, captain marvel probably could lead a team of people
That's not the problem. It's the fact that she just doesn't know any of our characters and it bothers me that she's going to be like
They're sex Machina we need because what you need is like a whole movie where she gets to know them
You know like avenges the original a lot of people say it's like kind of outdated now. I still think it's a good movie but um
everyone is
Flashing and getting to know each other and then by the lay of movies they all have an understanding and respect
Let's put it that way
But the idea that captain marvel is literally copied and pasted into endgame
And then she's just like all right, then let's do that. It's like yeah
All right, go away no
What you doing in my movie, um, did any of you guys see a cold pursuit by the way
What's that?
Uh, it's a Liam neeson movie. Yeah
Uh, I haven't seen it yet, but I want to dude. I saw it in theaters twice. It's it's good
uh, it's it's a lot it's the one where Liam neeson's son gets taken from him by
Drugs by drugs if you break every Liam neeson movie down something always gets taken from him
Like the ability for his airplane to fly in the gray
No, it's actually a completely good functional aircraft away from this man
Well, his wife was taken from him in that movie. So, you know, that's true
It's not even it's not even like a standard Liam neeson movie. It's it's honestly, uh, like sure he becomes like a vigilante
a lot less of a badass and it's uh
It's it's more like a uh, a film like fargo. You guys ever watch fargo? Oh, yeah
Yeah, it's basically a spiritual successor to fargo
I like the idea that every single Liam neeson movie
At the same timeline because even when you go back and look at batman begins
He's like my wife was taken from me and it's like I know what you mean
Which wife no
He's had a few at this point are you including the chronicles of narnia?
Um, he's reincarnated. Oh god. He was in that movie, wasn't he? He was the jesus lion
Oh boy
uh
I don't get I don't get of these arguments everything done in a film is for the benefit of the audience if something happens just
Because it's needless fluff
Unfortunately, i'm not 100 sure who that's a response to specifically
Uh, it's called mission impossible, but tom cruise always completes his mission zero out of ten
I refuse to watch or support these films or lies
I mean, they are pretty much impossible missions. That's usually the the writing theme is the mission is ridiculous
My implied spiders foretold me milking butterfly ghost rhinos with women in the
clipperzine clapping three times without getting objectively bored in my opinion, but anyways guys
You know that shouldn't make a lot of sense to anybody who hasn't seen efap. That's just
It goes
But it makes complete sense to us. We know exactly what that man was trying to say
Well, thanks for telling me where you got your blu-ray footage for videos. What programs do you use personally?
It seems complicated. Is it not sony vegas? I believe I have 16
15 I can't remember 15
Uh, I use 14 and sony vegas like it may seem intimidating if you've never used it before but just throw a video file in there
It play on it and realize you've got like the little preview thing like oh and then try cutting try moving things around
You'll learn all the basic stuff then look into youtube videos to just give you tips and tricks on other things
Yeah, whenever um whenever you need to be like, oh, how do you do thing and then just go to youtube?
How do I do thing and then you learn a thing and there's a ton of really good videos to tell you how to do
Sony vegas stuff
Just you learn a little bit at a time and it just builds up and builds up and then you learn how to do a lot
And all of a sudden you're like, oh wow. I didn't I I know all these things
Um, hello all my n-words also
Hey, sounds more loved your wolf war hammer vimentide 2 review
Oh, thank you. I I worked. I worked extremely hard on that. Yeah, it was great. Very long time
Seriously lads bringing smiles to this dragon's day and i'm glad me silly sketches can do the same for you
That's uh from bayouin by the way
Ah
Get off bayouin
Wolf watch elita ova before reading the manga in your review. The movie isn't just based off. Uh
that
for your information
Yep, I talked to the person in the chat. I got the ova pulled up on another tab
I'll probably watch that once we're done here. Sweet
I won't be able to stay long because of work, but I want to say thank you maula rags wolf for giving great content
May the rhino milky with you very much. No rhino milky with you and also with you
Wolf, I want to say even though I disagree with you
Sometimes on a couple of movies my respect for you is immense because of you
I got back into reading and feel my life has become all the better for it
Well, cool. Thank you
Uh, are we sure he's seen the fallout three times?
I I I can believe it. It's okay right now
I bet that he was bored though, but the entire time I bought him
It's tough when I in general, I just don't like
The movies suck
Yeah
Yeah, um, I mean your your your content seems to focus more on gaming than movies itself. Yeah
Yeah, like I think that that was your third total
video on on movies at all
Yeah
Yeah, you made a ghostbusters video. Oh, I guess it's my fourth
Fourth, I forgot about the ghostbusters one. Yeah. Yeah. Well, wait, I was counting that and the kingsmen
What was the other one kingsmen? I did one on uh long takes and how they fake the cuts and
That's it and mission impossible
I gotcha
Yeah
Hey guys, i'd love to hear about how the three of you met. I remember someone saying that maula insulted wolf
I wish I could have seen that discussion
It's not it's not hugely interesting. I mean we got on quickly. So
Yeah, so I made a thor ragnarok video because I didn't like the movie and then people started
tweeting at me saying maula's talking shit and I was like who the fuck is maula and then they sent me the
Link to the video and uh, it's the third tlj. Sorry critique at one hour and eight minutes
um
He starts talking about thor ragnarok and I was like, oh
This is where it's gonna be
And then he says my video is terrible
And then I commented not even thinking you would notice it. Um, thems are fighting words
And boy, then we just had a conversation and then I was like, all right
We're probably never gonna talk with that again, but that's that was fun
And then we kept talking and now we watch like multiple movies a week and do this. So
That's how it happened
It was definitely like a much more good-natured jab than miss anthropony's jab at mauler in his
That one's confusing. Yeah
I like how miss anthropony is like you don't need to have a five-hour series on this and he makes like an hour series
Oh, but miss anthropony you worthless content creator
Congratulations. Finally, you said you said all the same critiques mauler did like six months prior
And insulted mauler for having a series almost as long as yours was get out of here
absolute loser
Uh, and I was gonna say as for rags, it's really easy like he just sent me a message saying like
Want to hang out some time and I was like, okay, that was it
We're friends
We are friends now you will accept this cast. Yeah rags
Uh didn't even consent like ask for consent. He just friends me, you know
We are friends now. Yep. He put his hand over my head
The interesting part though, I think is the wolf and rags met separately to me and rags meeting separately
Yeah, and then so we were all friends with each other, but not as like a trio and then we created uh, these uh, these disgusting podcasts
I was just so
I was just so distraught after seeing the last jedi or rather. I like to say being subjected to it
and uh
I was like just trying to assure myself that I wasn't going crazy in this movie that I had insanely positive reviews
uh was actually terrible and then
P days later mauler makes this video called an unbridled rage
and
That was that fan ever since this is my whole youtube career is because of that choice
Yeah, I mean you have like how many subscribers like 5000 for that video. Yeah, it was uh, just over 2000
2000 yeah, so and then you just skyrocketed to popularity after that the last jedi brings people together
but
That's honestly like one of the only good things to come from that movie is I wouldn't have uh
Seen seen mauler wolf rags. I wouldn't have seen any of the people
Connected to efap in any capacity if it weren't for that fucking movie
Yep, I want to give thanks to jesus and ryan. Johnson. What a legend ryan. Jesus
What you're saying that ryan johnson and jesus aren't the same thing
Well, we can prove ryan johnson existed
And thus you can prove jesus
There you go
Um, yeah, and if you have to watch your work tomorrow rags, I asked v yesterday
But when will you two kiss and make up in sargon's dnd? Please stream soon. He has a problem with me for some reason
I don't even know
Yeah
His he is convinced that i'm like his enemy in dnd
I'm like, I destroyed my shoulders like i'm don't I don't even know. I don't understand that a gun
Sargon, what are you doing?
They met at kgb office in the stalin hall. Yes
Exactly. I went the I felt argument is a nothing argument. It's not it's not entirely a nothing
It's just nothing in the in the same context
So if if wolf came home and was like man, I fucking hate elita battle angel
It's good, but man, it's just like hitting me all in the wrong way. And I was like, what do you mean?
You go. Oh, well it references
All these things
That I really think they could have covered better because I I have a big investment in it personally
I just felt that they did it badly. That would be completely valid
Because he's not saying that it's you know
I hate to use the words. It's like a fucking buzzword at this point, but it's like he's not being objective deliberately
And that's the thing we've only ever wanted the line drawn
We've never said that you can't have feels arguments because if you feel your feels arguments will explain your feels
point
um when I reference this stuff like
Uh, i've got a friend who really likes
Dr. Strange because uh, he associates with what he goes through with the disability thing and I was like, yeah
That's something I can't really like I wouldn't get personally so
But uh, I can see how someone would feel that way and that's why he really enjoys the films
He really connects with doc strange on that level
While I think the doc strange is pretty flawed in terms of structure
But it's just like, you know makes for interesting conversation when you just separate the two out. That's all
Um life gold now be a guest on efap, but you never know with these things, you know
It's not like we intended for this southpaw creature to get onto here, but he just you know slithered on
I I just uh bombarded wolf with uh tagged messages in the chat last time. Oh god
Good points people are gonna start adding wolf with oh, sorry
Don't at me. Don't have me
Hey wolf part two and three of your alpha and omega videos aren't available where I live
Could you please give me a five words rundown of what happens?
Why wouldn't they be oh copyright, um, they're terrible movies
There you go
They're really really really awful movies
That's the rundown, oh wolf I showed my friend lord the ring since he had never seen or read them before
And after returning the king ended he said how could they do my boy Frodo like that?
By the way mullah you watched that high top vid yet kisses. I don't think so and
What's wrong with what they did to Frodo?
But Frodo went to the undying lands. Is that what he's referring to?
Or is he talking about the fact that Frodo was the ring by the end?
I I don't know. I mean, I don't know what the criticism is exactly. So
All right
So a seal walks into a club. Oh
Get it
I I thought I didn't I thought that uh seals were like, uh, they're like baptists and they didn't drink
Yeah, that was always my understanding. So that's that's a
inaccurate joke disgusting
Uh had to donate five more bucks for that joke rag is that's one hell of a wit you got there such a savage
I what was that one? It was the uh,
I can't remember what the joke was but it was really good. Um
Oh
Didn't he just like do uh, he just referenced the movie
I believe so
Mola people are criticizing your robot. They say it's a broken hypothetical. You can't use something about the one who programs it as a bias
Well, i'm sorry that people are so fucking retarded that they can't I get this all the time
It was so simple
The idea is a robot has no personality at all
So what you put into the robot is all that it has and so you say look at logical consistency only
And so now the robot is going to conclude everything based on that no feels arguments can possibly even come out of it
Theoretically and then people like this has been the person who programmed it would would be a person so therefore it was like
There's not this the tip of the theoretical i've just given you all of the standards
So the idea is just to prove what an objective take would be
Because just right was like you can't be objective if you're human. I was like, okay
Then take a theoretical robot and it's only concern is logical consistency. It will be an objective take. Yes
And then like the robot would be programmed by a human
It's like you want to bang your head against the desk it's like oh jesus, okay, fine i'm out but yeah
But if it's like skynet and it was created by other robots though robot milk
Uh people think fallout is bad re I I know thanks for the fat for my birthday. No problem
Someone sewer chatted. He liked rags's fallout 76 video. So he got mad
He gave money to maula for his video and then the meme was born from that point
Oh, I get it
What why would I get mad that somebody?
Oh, you were probably joking. I think you were actually there was certainly a
Assassin's creed aliens
Oh, I remember somebody sent a super chat and you you're you get the super chat and it was because they liked my video
So much and so I was like, oh this good thing on videos making you all this bunny mauler and then everyone started thinking mauler
All right, I just want to highlight just right is a more mature critic than mauler who appreciates that art is more important than craft
I've never said this
It's like it's like, you know, remember quinton said why why is objective better than subjective?
Remember that rags when did we ever say these things that like I don't know people make people make shit up about us
and a lot of the times
The things that people accuse us of saying that they hate are things that people they like say unironically all the time
They fucking say it too baffles me it baffles me
Yeah, I uh, we uh, the craft is super important what people get out of it for themselves
It's also super fucking important depending on what the conversation is
We'll just have to keep saying it until people stop saying that we're not saying it because it's all we can really do
Um last time I saw a four-on-one this brutal I had to take sexual counseling. Oh, oh
Mauler feels like a mediator in the zfap. I mean, I think I think
It was all relatively civil, you know
It was okay
Uh, merry christmas froggers. I forgot to write a message on my last one law respect the hell out of you for doing this
Ren instant sub. Oh, there you go
Yeah, that's good, uh
Let me may have started on the first efap gaming when I donated 100 saying how I liked rags pull out video
And then rags got mad. The mauler got the money for his wick
Yeah, again, I don't think rags is actually bad. I wasn't really mad
I'm happy that one of my buddies is getting richer and richer
It's off the back of you the money three ways for this you just know
It's uh, I don't I don't know that it's not an issue for me. It's fine. Well, it's it's I mean
I literally never I never think about it. I don't even
I mean, I wouldn't I wouldn't necessarily mind just the whole point. I thought that was that we we would be having streams altogether
But for now rags and wolves sort of dial this down
We'll do uh, we'll do a 40 40 10 split i'll get 40 mauler gets 40 and the wolf gets 10
What the fuck? Why do I only get 10? Yeah
How come none of you guys said that only adds up to 90
I think it point
Where's the chat going, huh? The chat you guys were so focused you see here's the thing. I set this shit up
Hey, I made a joke on your greed, but you didn't even know that there was 10 left over for some mystery person
I'm still getting significantly less. I was gonna say both the wolf's point would still be valid
What about the other 10 percent there you go stabbers said it
I think I just think that um wolf needs to contribute more if he's going to get the bling like we do what the fuck
I don't even monetize my videos. Yeah, well wolf
Because who would pay for that shit? Yeah, well if you don't even monetize your videos, right?
You don't have to pay for that
Yeah, who would that's your opinion? Well, no one no one because it's a youtube video. They have no option to
They wouldn't it wouldn't be youtube
Wouldn't be youtube apparently but oh my video today. It got demonetized like before I could even
You're queer in the title. That was probably the reason
Yeah, well, maybe they fucking shouldn't be so queer then did you have a get you didn't have a get uh reviewed
Manually. Yeah, I think I actually did get ads up on it fairly quickly, which shocked me
The thing that sucks about youtube the thing
Um, but about nine out of ten of my appeals get approved
So their bot is wrong at least 90 percent of the time, but they still just keep that bot going
Wait, it's is your video down
No, it's up. It just it got demonetized the second I even suggested it to youtube
But apparently someone messaged me already and said oh, I got an ad on your video. I'm like, oh, that's nifty
Hooray, but it can still get ads on it if it's demonetized
Uh, yeah, it either doesn't get ads or they're submitted. Yeah. Yeah
So a lot of the times it'll just be
You can just set it for a scheduled upload and have youtube
Look at it and manually review it before it goes live
They've done that for me a couple times and my channel is much smaller
Like I said, you probably wouldn't even have the problem if the way queer wasn't in the title because that's how stupid they are with this
Like they'll just be like that evil weird, you know, like is it though? Okay
I mean, I thought that they were trying to reclaim that word
What demonetize no queen no
Why would anyone
Um
Uh, no joke after the original fallout 76 chat, I might be the first one to make the meme of it
That's from creamy sheaves. So he's claiming ownership of the meme the meme master creamy she
All right, let's see if this is summoning wicks and they've got a bunch of candles around er one day
As a huge fan of fallout new vegas
I can understand how wolf wouldn't like it and I can accept that what I can't accept is when snax said evil dead series
Was terrible. That's just wrong. Yeah. No, he's evil. Oh, really he's satan
I I think I mentioned it on the previous efap. It was in my like summary notes and stuff
He said that um army of darkness was bad
And uh as a part of the evil dead series, I was like the other one's bad and he was like, yes
I've literally never seen an evil dead movie. Oh, no
They just they're movies. You're not allowed to say a bad
You've seen ash versus evil dead there's laws against it. I haven't seen it. No
Oh my god
That I love evil dead. That's
That's my that's pretty much my star wars. That's the thing I grew up with
Yeah, the show is is so good
it's it's rare to see
you know, we're in an age of reboots and
Sequels and stuff like that and I think evil dead ash versus evil dead is one of the few things that actually
lives up to
the older
material
Except season two is a little hitchy. It's got a couple missteps in season two, but one and three
They they do it right
rags wolf mauler fifth element good or bad
I haven't seen it in a really long time. So I don't need a real fifth element. Yeah
I saw ages ago and I really liked it. I'd have to watch it again to be sure but oh so good
It just it understands itself
Thank you fucking with me right now
No, I know I mean it like it understands that it is
It gets what it is and it plays it
self off as
Like a silly movie what it needs to it doesn't try to be super serial or anything like that
Uh thoughts on john wick
Love it
Love it
First one's pretty good
I love the first one
Oh, yeah, whoa, whoa, I skipped that uh, yeah and for clarification
I actually do intend to make videos on john wick because I think it's kind of a sad
little uh
story of
how a creator can uh
Be convinced by like work being loved that they need to just remake it again
And it's something that you can easily avoid
By doing the whole I know this is a strange example
I was just thinking about it like how lord durengs was the 123 all in a row done and done. There's no like
They make the first one that everyone's like oh man. I fucking loved it with balrog
I hope they do a balrog again in the second one then peter jackson's like, okay. Can we fill balrog in here?
How about a balrog is just in mordor? He's just filling out
Give him the background and i'll fight him again
pretty cool
Isn't that kind of what?
Isn't that kind of what he did in the hobbit movies with?
Yeah, you could say that the hobbit movies are what i'm just I was talking about there kind of
Which yeah, they really did just you horn a bunch of shit from the lord of the rings and when it really shouldn't have been
I mean I I do love legolas. Actually, I had a corgi
Uh who passed away a few years ago, but i'd named him after legolas. You named your corgi legolas. Yes
What a strange name for a corgi
well, okay, so
I I actually got him as a uh christmas gift technically, uh, and he was named legolas for me because I I loved
the character, oh
Um, and I was like, I think
Uh nine at the time when I got him. I think that would be a a gimli
That's excusable to name it that at nine. Jeremy johns named his dogs
Yeagers from pacific rim. There's an argument right now
Sorry, I had a friend that
I had a friend that named uh, his his chihuahua after gimli
Spindly little dwarf this is not going to chat right now. What's going on this arguing that it makes sense that ray could vanish a blade
with the force
Fuck no
Jesus christ
Well, if we accept that she can make objects disappear
Let's think about how useful this could be in literally any scenario imaginable. Well, they can lift stuff. What's their name?
What's what's this person's name? I don't know. I don't know like
Dump on them. I'm just saying no, I just I just wanted to do uh, my my best possible ralph retort
Impression reacting to monday matt, you know what? What you know the why?
I mean you've already the joke has been done technically
No, wait a minute man. No
Uh, oh, yeah wolf you can't get rid of your xbox just yet. What if they make halo infinite and xbox exclusive on release?
I don't care at all
It I mean one two three and odst are really the only one yeah halo four story I like but nothing else about it is good
I I mean honestly if it was just halo one two three fine infinite i'm not holding out hopes for it being good
It's 343. They don't make good games
Uh halo one of the best story because the flood is actually a surprise then the arbiter is legit though
Still waiting on a standalone game with him
I think the only
Refutation I would have to that is that the characters in halo one were kind of nothing
I mean it had a good plot and it had good world building, but it didn't have really any story to it
Cortana was the closest to having any kind of characterization. I still love that game to death
But halo two that one's where it's at
Halo three is a real close second
Uh wolf, what are your thoughts on the didact?
Oh, he could have been such a good villain until they decided to kill him
Fucking kill him with a grenade in a quick time event and then we're like, okay
Let's bring him back and kill him again in a comic and it was like what are you doing?
so stupid
Such a cool villain that was wasted. He was snoke before snoke was a thing
Now oof oof said the robot could make up a defense for the disappearance you can't deny that you're talking about
Was the the disappearing knife yeah wouldn't
The robot wouldn't be able to come up with anything the robot doesn't come up with anything
Like it doesn't invent notice it actually. Yeah, it would just be like knife disappeared
Law report next thing like, okay
Or maybe wouldn't even quantify the trying to justify the disappearing
Yeah, uh, that's a major continuity error like that. That's uh, it's a different level than the four
Uh rowdy french guys in the bathroom and fallout. Yeah. No, well, this is the thing. It's very severe of this with major lee
Like if you're at the point
If you're at the point where you're defending a knife literally disappearing then you're too far gone
Okay, someone said outlast is better than soma in chat
Well, i'm out chat chat said outlast is better than soma. We're done
Rags can we just ignore justin and can we stop using gender? It has no basis in science
Look at er's video on steven universe. He brings up john money
Gender does have a basis in science
All right, there's a bylaw there's a link to gender that does uh relate to biology there are men
There are women and there are rocks
There are rocks
The three genders
I actually just remembered. Uh, I I mentioned uh cold pursuit earlier wolf. There's actually a scene where the uh,
The the main villain of that movie is uh sitting down with this hitman because this guy's like a like an organized crime boss
and uh
He um the hitman, um at one point
Uh says axe
But he's it's supposed to be ask
And uh, no the bad guy no the bad guy actually
Ask
It's wolf in the not so great debate guy oh my god now I really want to watch this movie
You need to see it
Oh, like oh, that sounds funny
uh, oh
Reach the this is a super chat reach the game explains who holes he is. You don't need the book
I think your bias is showing you want to call me an idiot then let's debate
What's his name mr. E?
Mr. E you're an idiot
And i'm going to tell you why because first off
Um, you didn't listen to what I actually said clearly
I know it's a little bit of a difficulty with reach fans because they don't really listen to anything
So here's the thing I said very specifically in this stream if you go back and watch it
I said she's the first thing brought from the books that the other games do not explain
It's the first case of
The games using book knowledge that you would need to know. However, I also said that the game
gives you
Enough information without telling you more of the interesting and shit with her
Um, it's it's basically she's a scientist. She knows the spartans. It's like it's fine
It wasn't even one of my big criticisms of the game
Because it doesn't tell you the context or nuance behind the character
But she is explained fine, which I said in the stream. No, it's hard to listen
You could try it sometime
And I don't know what bias you think I have since i'm biased toward the bungee games
But you know reach fans aren't exactly intelligent I like reach I thought it was fun
I also like reach I had fun on forge. I made a map called zombie stairs that all my friends like playing
Forged was the best part of reach objectively. You're an objectively
I am what did you guys think of end game trailer that dropped last night? We're not going to talk about it
Talk about it because because it's people here don't want to see it
Gonna skip over that
Uh, we'd love to have a discussion with you guys about halo. Halo 2 has the best story
Love halo 4 and has the most fun with it. Halo 3 is the easiest of the franchise to beat on legendary
wrong
Objectively halo 5 is the easiest
Wait, wait one clarification. I just want to make because this is something I know
Halo 3 is really you can manipulate the crap out of it and co-op to on legendary
Just have someone guys stay back and then some guy go forward and get killed over and over and over and over and over again
That's literally every halo game. Oh, okay. I that's not too though. Two has iron on pretty much the whole time
Oh, i've never played day two on co-op, but yeah, it's a mistake
I'm talking just um single player halo 5 is piss easy
A lot of people like outrage the accounting halo 5 at all
Halo is the only good halo hashtag fight me story veto even then I would say if we're talking about the halos
If we're talking about the halos that matter then odst is easier than three
Do you think odst doesn't have the flood?
Do you think that halo odst is you think it can hold a candle to spartan assault? Yeah
I mean halo wars is usually the hardest unless you're out of all of them
I I would actually say it's one of the hardest
Yeah, halo 2 is halo 2 is the hardest because it's broken
Like legendary on halo 2 legit is not fair
Listen wolf when it comes when halo 2 comes out to pc we can do
A 24 hour high charity on legendary marathon and we're gonna have a great time. We are not
Okay, first off you mean grave mind. It is on high charity. So it's fine. There's a map
Wait, there's a there's a isn't that one of the levels is high charity?
Well, the the the location is high charity, but the level is called grave mine
So I know what level you mean because it's infamous because the legendary literally made me hate that level
so
um mission 12 high charity
Pretty sure it's called grave mine. The mission is called
Hold on which one are you talking about?
Are you talking about the one that's all about the flood or the one before that talking about the one called high charity?
Okay, hold on I need to look this up now wolf's whole wheel has just been shaded because i'm pretty I am almost positive
This one says high charity it's called grave mine
The one is why do all of these say great high charity on them because high charity is the location in the game
but why would everyone think because no one no one calls like all their missions like
like the the location like
I don't know what you're looking at. It's called high charity
Are guys you did it. You did it. Hold on
halo
to mission
Select
See, I want to see it's called grave line. I know it has got to be called grave. What god
Like there's a little thing pop up
Levels names. Yeah, there's there's a mission called high charity two missions after yeah. Yeah, that's that's a different one
The one that's infamous is grave mined high charity is the one that's significantly easier. It's still at the location high charity
But the one that's infamous is great
Yeah, we're talking about mission 12 mission 12 is the one that's like infamous for being horrible all right then also, uh
Dreamy she said he's just made a video of why is the retinue rags?
Meeting so it'll be like i'll probably try that on the next uh
One so don't worry memes aren't gone or anything. Um wolf thoughts on berserk and favorite character
Um, i've only read the first volume i'm waiting
um
the big
Volumes that have like the big books that have like multiple volumes in them to read the rest
Uh, but of volume one, I really really liked it and puck is objectively the best
Um, hey wolf, I loved your new video on riley jay dennis
I worked very hard on it. Thanks. Uh
It was because frodo died
He was just sad about it and the high top video is why homecoming isn't a good spider-man story donated like four times
Asking you about it over three months. Oh, we'll i'll put it in a tab. Hang on
hold on
Frodo didn't die
No, he didn't yeah, what are you talking about?
I mean if you want to talk like theoretically, well, no, he didn't even really theoretically die
Or theoretically, um, I don't know what word i'm trying to think of he's got ptsd. He's not dead
Spider-man homecoming is a bad spider-man movie. I mean i'll check that out. We could possibly cover that on efab actually
depending on if his arguments are entirely from fucking comics then uh
I'm not gonna have anything to say. I just
But uh, i've heard that people think spider-man homecoming is bad because it's not close enough to what spider-man would do
Whatever
a spider-man is
Yeah, i'll try and have a look at that
Uh, what are your thoughts on the godzilla movies given how a lot of the films are not objectively good
But it's the longest running movie series to date
Is it really can you count that when they're all like disjointed and unconnected? That's not really fair. Is it?
That's true
Uh, it's probably one of the longest running
ip's that are in movies, I guess
True, that could be it. Um
I didn't like the 2014 one
I thought it was uh the first like theater bit I liked and then oh, yeah
The first third was great until they killed off. Um, the only character in films. Yeah, the only character
Yeah, uh, you know i'll be interested to see the new one I guess
It looks better. But then again the trailer for the first one looked pretty good too. So
thoughts on kong school island
I thought it was terrible. I thought I really liked it. I thought it was great. I liked it. I liked it a whole lot
It was awful
Yeah, i'm with mauler on this one. I hated it. I really liked it
Um, it sucks. It didn't come out in 2018, right? Because then that could have been another 2018 movie
Oh wait, did it did it come out then? No, no, I think that was 2017 2017. Yep
2017 the king kong and tlj of movies
What we got I sent wolf multiple super chats, it's okay wolf i'll support you whenever you stream I care there you go
Oh, thank you, it's fine. I I was literally just joking. I don't care about if I make money from youtube
It doesn't matter to me
Hey, well, hi everybody
With that in mind if anybody out in the chat was ever going to give any money to wolf fuck that noise
Instead go ahead and send it to me because I definitely care
I would love everything down to the down to the half's penny down to the farthing
They haven't the south farthing of course whichever went smaller
Well, who cares so wolf and mauler agree once again are they actually the same by the different bodies don't always agree
We don't always agree
Maybe we should just have a debate where we
Stand on two sides of a thing. We need to find a thing. We disagree. I'll I'll admit something
That's not like controversial something like like abortion. Yeah, there you go something. That's not controversial
um
Yeah, like be a wolf watched
Uh a lot of films recently we do have similar reactions to most stuff at this point
Like it is curious to see if we could find some stuff that we just delivered definitely stand
The thing is that what's going to have to happen is we both see a movie separately and then instead of being able to talk through
A movie and like go over frozen cons and stuff. I don't know
I mean we watched civil war together and I still wasn't a big fan of it
Well, that's the thing that you wouldn't you wouldn't be arguing. It's bad. Would you?
No, not really. I think that's what they're looking for. Like, you know, the fact that me and rags are clearly opposed on king kong
My my brother who likes black panther so much that's his second favorite
doesn't like civil war because he thinks that they don't argue strongly enough in uh,
Favor of like opposing the uh, sokovia accords he's wrong in a bad man
He's the one that I mean I introduced uh, oh don't let him watch this episode. Okay. No, he's going to he knows i'm coming
Sorry, tim
Uh, reclaimer. I am 343 guy explodes. Fuck you. 343 wolf with a shotgun
Oh, um, um southpaw you were gonna say something to me. Yeah the subtitle of your justice
That was
Well, hold on you're cracking up. You gotta you gotta start. Oh, i'm sorry. I I freeing it out. Okay. Uh, yeah
The subtitle to your justice league video was the worst film of 2017
Uh, but that was made a month before the last jedi. Is that still your stance?
No
Last jedi was worse
Okay, i'm glad to clarify that that that's honestly been on my mind for for a very long time
Well, I didn't I couldn't think
At that point I was like
There's nothing that could be worse than this
And then ryan johnson came along and he was like, uh, I can make something that was so much worse
hold my green milk
like honestly
It wasn't justice league the video that started where you were like, I didn't think that anything could possibly be worse than
Such inside. I didn't think anything could possibly worse than the dark tower and then this movie came along yet. Yeah
Yeah. Oh my god, man
That movie was that year was so bad because I was like, there's so many bad movies
But then justice league came out and I was like, okay. Nothing's ever topping this
And then star wars happened and it was like
I I hate my life
Um, halsey halsey is not explained well at all if you mean a single line from
That george or jorge
Oh, um
It it the the name is hooray, but for some reason in the game they pronounce it george
I don't have a problem with it, but whatever. Okay
If you mean a single line from george when he calls him mom or whatever else she says then
That's that's his accent I thought it was mom for a long time, too
But I put on subtitles once and he just it it sounds like mom when he's saying mam
It's just he's kind of he's got an unbelievably thick accent
So that got me at first too, but it's not a flaw because it's just it's literally just oh
Well, he's talking about how the character's just not really explained at all. Anyway halsey
I mean she she's not all the context behind her character is not explained, but it it wasn't a huge problem with reach
I love reach mostly because it was my first halo. I cannot wait for it to come to pc
That's what I see a lot
It's a lot of people like reach was their first halo game and that's what it comes down to
I mean halo 3 was mine, but I still like reach
But I mean I still like part. I still like parts of reach and I think you would probably like reach more than me
Did in you're not as invested in halo as I am
So the things that it did to the gameplay and to the story that's unforgivable for me
Jay just said reach was my first halo game. It's like jay. It was your first video game be honest
Yeah, come on jay. You don't cut scenes with your fist
Um, but yeah, that's that's actually I
Took us a very long time. I think we've actually that was like an hour I think but uh
That's it. Oh, are you interested in making an mcu rankings video?
Possibly and you'll probably be a nefap as well just for the fun of it. I I knew we should have streamed that
Um, we'll do it again
We'll do it again
And especially with endgame and captain marvel being out it'll be even more complete at that
Because we're actually even a part of that that you me and fringing were there who else was it was glib
I think was the fourth guy
Oh
It was yeah, that was interesting. We can always stream something like that at some points. It was fun
Uh wolf just explained his bias against reach my bias being that I give a shit about gameplay and story. You're right, mr
ear
I'm not known to that but wolf just explained everyone else's bias towards reach back that it was their first game
That was the point he was making so my bias is that I care got it. Thanks. Um
Yeah, I was gonna say before we close out. Uh
Thank you both guests for coming on and do you want to give yourselves like a moment of trying to
I don't know sell the audience on why they should subscribe to your channel ren if you want to go first
Oh, I'll go first. Okay. Um
Just sell the odd. It's uh an elevator pitch, huh? Go for it
Okay. Well every video I make is a labor of love that mission impossible one was clearly a bit of a misstep
but I primarily focus on video games, so
I
Try to make every video
As much fun as I can with uh infusing good points in there
to the best of my ability and uh
I'm pretty proud of where my editing is at and i'm planning on
Getting after effects to up my game in that department as well
and uh
I just try to have fun with it
so
Yeah, that's it. Mm-hmm. There you go. Check it out if you'd like to guys and uh, the second guest was
Very correctly is it?
What did I do?
It's run with two ends. Oh
I see. I thought that might have been some kind of part with uh, the the the screen name or something
But yeah, i'll uh, i'll make sure that's right in the description. Um, okay
but yeah southpore if you want to you want to say something about your channel if you're
planning on maybe making some more analysis videos
absolutely, um, so
uh
I I had actually done youtube videos uh seven years ago and I stopped making them because I just kind of like lost passion for them but uh
what watching um mauler and and company's uh content over the last year has gotten me really like
inspired to
Try to start making some similar content and I guess that notice how he says mauler and company
He doesn't say wolf and company notice how he doesn't say rags and company. Oh, yeah, he did. He definitely did
Well, it's just you know, um
Ren's video on
Fallout was you know
uh, it was like a jumping-off point for me, I guess because I I just love that film so much and I uh,
I think I think it's just so good and
so I was I actually had started working on it and then I think that got mentioned on the
on efap 26 at one point like in passing
so, um
But yeah, like I I plan on making more content in the future. Um, probably just focusing on
Whatever it could be a video game. It could be
Whatever movie I see in the theater. Um
Or or a book or a tv show
Um, just sort of analyzing stuff like that
Um, i'm new to editing. I used a terrible video editor for my video. So the audio
Uh was out of sync
um
After the rendering process was finished i'm i'm rather pissed about that but i'm i'm currently working on improving the uh production quality
so
I'll say um, even though we're mortal
You carry yourself really well for somebody that doesn't probably doesn't talk into a microphone very often
Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. I um, I mean we don't have to be real enemies. It's just no we're mortal enemies
There's no doubt. Oh, okay. Okay, by the way mortal engines was shit
You're the only one that saw it
I am the only I think I might be the only person who saw slash remembers that existed
I literally forget its existence until you bring it up. Did you see that movie? No
You should it's terrible. I I like literally how about only ever hear of it from you?
Yeah, well, I mean it's probably out relatively soon, right? We could probably check it out at some point
Let me see where it is on amazon
We'll see because if it's out on amazon, it's out on pirate bay
Yes
That would probably be true
Fucking comes out before that. But yeah, we'll
We'll we'll see we'll see about maybe watch
Um, i'm just gonna say is there's a there's a comment from tabula four that says remember every efap is that much time
All it isn't editing part three just pointing that out
like
Uh, this is not quite how it works
Once a week, he hangs out with his friends
What a tear we took a three-week gap as well like what the hell
I I guess that i've i've been nicknamed, uh chris stuckman
In by by the chat, so blessed stuckman
It's not yeah
Yeah, and by the way
There are some people who are actually more of a fan of efap than like
Me ragsimal's main content because some people are like i'd rather that that this
Oh, they could make the same comment and reverse for every moment they spend editing and writing their videos they're not doing efap
Ooh
Yeah
Blessed stuckman indeed, but yeah, that's that's about it
Everybody I don't know if there's anything any of you want to say before we close out
um working on metro exodus review and
My lead a video won't come out until i've read the manga which is taking fucking forever to ship here. So
I'm working on those
Anybody else
um
Let me see I would say
Um, I have a new video video out by the way. Uh, i'll put it out today. Go check that out. Um, you should you really should
It's the best video hi first off if you haven't
um
I
Don't think anything else really come to mind. I don't know when the next efap is going to be. Oh, I think i'm gonna do a stream
Uh a stream response to the jim sturling video on steam. Oh
saturday
Which have you got guests for that already? I jump into this. Oh my god. I just called him
But I would definitely I need more guests because it's just me and fringy i'll i'll totally
Be there. Oh, you're gonna be this sweet. Yeah, i'm gonna be there. It's gonna be great. When are you doing it? Uh, saturday
Oh, I can't do it. Oh
Uh, well, i'll watch it. I didn't know you hated rag so much sunday. What about sunday? I can do sunday. Um
saturday
Oh fringy said saturday sunday for me should work. Um
how long hmm
I I can do it all sunday, but I work on saturday. So I can't do it then
It doesn't matter if i'm not there. It's fine
Well, if ever anyone needs a spot filled in i'd i'd be happy to
Uh, I just want to say I i'm very grateful to have been
uh
To to have been here. Um
It's it's really cool. I've i've been following everyone here for like over a year now and i've
If i've been told, uh last week that was going to be on an episode of efap. Uh, I would never believe them
I mean, um, yeah, you know, we don't because we'd like to keep it
You know
Like theo was never planned. It was just like why not? You could jump on
You'd like to keep it. Uh, i'm trying to figure the right word just like loose not not like we don't want to make it
So there's like
There's no way any of you could ever speak
Thank you. Um, I i'm now living proof that efap is willing to bring on um, someone from the chat
If if they're you know, we've already done that. We did it with you
Oh, right. I'm sorry
Yeah, that's sorry. You're stuck
I I am stuck. That's right. Tell that to zod's snap neck
That's just good writing and you can't tell because it's
Better than you i'm not even sure if they all get that reference. I know I do
Hey, man, you can't just go around killing people
I want to release the stuckwood cut
Uh, but yeah, I mean that again that wraps it up unless there's anything else
Yeah, I just wanted to also say thank you for having me on. Let me you know, hash it out
And for giving me some sweet sick watch time on the video
That's no problemo
Yeah
I hope it wasn't as bad as it may have felt as though it could possibly have maybe been
I definitely built it up in my head. I thought it would it wasn't great. I'll say that but it wasn't
It wasn't as bad as uh, I initially envisioned
Oh, right there's a couple more, uh, did you watch creed two? I remember you like creed. I still haven't seen creed two yet
But I did I haven't seen either
Yeah, that's sex john money's one experiment to prove gender exists failed, but everyone pretends that it did
The other thing
Gender whatever but um, yeah, i'm gonna i'm gonna cut it there folks. It's been a lot of fun
Thank you all for the the insight and the discussion. I hope everyone had fun
Thank you for the very kind donations and and and just hanging out and watching. Um, we don't know when the next efap will be
You know, that's how it goes. Um, but we will see you when it's around
Good. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Good luck
