And I don't do that is that is that is that music copyrighted am I in trouble now?
Well, I guess yeah, if you hum copyright in music then they can
Strike your channel. Yeah, or if you cover Captain Marvel's scene where she's a bitch
can't fucking boot it
In the in the view I just uploaded I had like a seven second clip from Game of Thrones
And they didn't care about the visuals but the background music got flagged for copyright
Was it?
The one of the songs
It was I don't know. It was like the scene when Sansa gets crowned Queen. There's some music in the back
The sense it gets crowned. That's like that's what they care about
Yeah, I'm surprised my my video where I walked the visuals actually got away with it. I
Don't think they care at all about visuals for HBO
Well, that's what I mean
I walked the visuals and the audio was the exact same and yet it got through I was like, huh
Okay. Yeah, they HBO clearly puts a great deal of value into the dialogue of their characters
That's why the audio gets claimed pretty sure they're hubbo is how you're supposed to pronounce it
Hello
Hello chat, how do you do?
It's another this is another bizarre random time for a fab. You never know what this show I
Don't even think we've actually done one of 5 p.m. BSD before. Well, I say that it's 540 but hey close enough
May as well to start
Oh, yeah
There was one super chat that came through after the stream has stopped last night from a tunes tunes
Hopefully he's listening slash he's listening. I wouldn't want to it. We were just talking about transphobia
Allegations and neck penises. So we want to make sure that we're we're clear on these are only allegations. There's nothing
There's only allegations of neck penises
They said you had me laughing hard enough with the dawn thing
I'm gonna give you three and a half back breaking days in
Filth-filled factory of my life hail the dawn
The dawn the dawn makes everyone's lives better. So thank you very much
and find your screen
That's okay dream is oh, there it is
I can find it in the stream shows up in my recommended
But when I go to your channel specifically to look for it, it isn't that makes a lot of sense
and then YouTube's like
Allow us to offer this recommendation. It was what you were looking for all along
Like actually no, but okay
Imagine you need imagine you want a glass of milk and you go to your fridge and you're looking for it
And you can't find it and then you get a knock on your door and there's a man
He's like I heard you wanted some milk and he presents you with a glass of milk
That's kind of what it feels like. I'm a good scenario
No, my milk's gone
Where my milk
so I guess I'll talk quickly while everyone's pouring in about about Godzilla non spoilers, um
It was pretty pretty bad and
I said it was pretty like like I said, it's pretty bad on Twitter and everyone's very upset at me. So like hey
God's it was supposed to be bad. I was like, okay
For some reason a lot of people thought I was saying like a lot of people have responses do with the human drama
I didn't even mention human drama like once so they were like, I don't care if there's no human drama
And yeah, I wouldn't say that the problem is that the human drama is in the film. It's just the human drama shit
That's all and I'm all on board with a Godzilla movie having a human drama. Why not? You know, how is the monster drama?
It's as good as you can imagine
Like I can imagine some pretty well you see the monster drama you saw the 2014 one right at some point no
well
the premise of that film is the
Man accidentally wake up evil monster thing and then Godzilla rises out of his infinite slumber to go kill it
That's pretty much the entire film. All right, and then they're like Godzilla I guess is on our team and it's like yep. Yep
Wait, why is Godzilla helping the people? Uh
Even with both films having been watched now, I don't know he's just sort of they describe him as benevolent at one point
I think his name his name is Godzilla not Satanzilla. Yeah
He's a nice man
Yeah, and the premise for this film is
14 evil monsters in total I think and
Godzilla they're like
Literally this is beginning the movie the government like we need to kill all of them before they kill us and then the scientists like
But some of them are nice
And that's the movie
We've got we've got spoilers. Yeah
Charles dance plays a cardboard cutout of himself. They shift him around the scenes and he's just there
Yeah useless and worthless and it's just it's really unfair because he's like awesome, but okay
Shit. Yeah, I could have had any any other old man actor
Could have filled issues and just done the same performance said it would have made a lick of bet difference
Oh someone said it was 17 and counting for the monsters
Not 14. Well, if you went by the movie strictly you probably say seven, right?
Yeah, and they were completely totally ambivalent and they like got jobs and
There's a lot of talk about how man has fucked the planet in that film and a lot of people were unhappy about that
I didn't really care cuz I thought it was so poorly written that whatever message they had to pull I was just lolling at it
You know
Oh my god, we're the monsters and
Global warming made the monsters. Yeah
Or a response from like mother if to get rid of us the infection was like, okay
Like I'm pretty sure that's what like natural disasters and diseases have been doing for the last always
So I guess they had to step it up a bit like damn it. They're curing diseases. We have to send monsters
They stole that that's from Final Fantasy 7
I knew it. I heard that was the shittiest game ever made how dare you how
How dare I listen to what people tell me? I just I just repeating what I do. I just heard from people
I've heard from people that it's terrible and it's horrible and no one should ever play it. Oh my god
Well, either way I said it wasn't particularly well-written and people were like, hey Godzilla movies
Not supposed to be well-written. I was like, oh no. Oh
No, and I even got the classic like supposed to be well-written
I got the classic like it's a movie about a fucking giant lizard with space breath
like why would you even assume that they you and I'm just like you realize that people make this argument fucking Star Wars and
Like if you're a fan of my channel that argument just doesn't fucking fly around here
Yeah, people like
Has bad writing sounds like it's the kind of Godzilla movie. I want I'm like, why would you want battle?
Why wouldn't you if it had good writing? Would it be a bad Godzilla film?
I'm confused how that way. Yeah, that's all I'm saying
I would have liked to have a movie where I see big CGI fights
But you have a nice little story in the background that binds it all together. How about that? Yeah
Apparently mother's basements made a video explaining that people like critics don't understand the value of spectacle in defense of this movie
Is that is that what the critics problem is well, this is funny cuz like I love that
I would technically fall into that group now. He'd be like you don't understand the value of spectacle. I'm like, okay
Look at the pretty lights
I don't know for definite, but let's just assume right or let's just say five mistake, right?
That the every scene of the monsters fighting in the film accounts about like 25% of the actual films run time
And that's a mother 75. Yeah, that's a most these ever 75% where it's the humans interacting with each other
It's fucking dire. So more than half the film is just
complete shit, I
Can't I don't care how good the other half is if if one half of it is and it's two hours long
So if like, you know, at least an hour of it is
Terrible, it's hard to enjoy the rest of it. No matter how good it can be or gets but it's not
Doesn't get that great, you know, why do you hate art?
Children why are you criticizing it Patrick Willems might love this movie? I don't know. Yeah, that's that's a video
We could event maybe cover. I'm curious what his arguments would be. We could check that out sometime, but
Yeah, that's that's it. I don't like people like I can't wait to see you rip it apart and rage
I'm not gonna make a video on Godzilla king of monsters. I don't really care about it
like it's
I'm not invested in Godzilla like a lot of people are and they're like that explains why I didn't like it
I'm like, no, I didn't I didn't didn't like it
Like I enjoyed a lot of the fucking the dangly keys bit call. Did you appreciate the spectacle?
I did appreciate the spectacle
But whatever they cut back to the fucking people at a stupid station looking at screens going this is bad. I'm like, okay
It's just gonna be you don't understand it
Some complex symbolism between giant monsters punching each other in the face when you get it where the boss does
Godzilla represents the internal struggle of late-stage capitalism
Human condition
Honestly you take the piss but that's like you know, you need like one step away from the fucking message
The film was trying to put say anyway
It's just like mass globalism and or consumption of you resources caused Godzilla and his friends to come out to play
I want to talk about
The ending that you went to the toilet for I'll just to give you the but it's too it's too potentially spoilery
So I have to leave it, but there's so much stupid shit
Well, well based on what I missed in a bear my this is the credits now
Not like I didn't miss like an actual scene to die. No, well, it was it was it was loads of newspaper clippings in a
Row, but it was loads of wheel building shoved onto the screen
Yeah, so it's basically like the most of the exposition came right at the end of the film or literally with the film
Do the movie Godzilla is selected to sit on the Iron Throne as king of the monsters
If you'll it feels bad that you said it that way because me and Alex laughing at the idea that you just made a very
Accurate joke about the film that it's like, oh you don't even see that
right
Yeah, I don't want to say any more than that, um, I could see myself watching it again
I probably will with with rags and fucking wolf for uh, for efap movies because there's so much to work with
Um, and it has amazing cinematography at certain points
I actually do want the Godora Godzilla face off as a background one day
Uh after I get the 4k version or something. It'll be great. But um, yeah, other than that it was terrible and i'm sorry
I wish it were better the 2014 one was better
The the i've spoken to wolf about it
He said the 98 one is more than likely better and I was like, oh god say that to a Godzilla fan
They'll fucking kill you
If you're a Godzilla fan, you're not allowed to like the Matthew Broderick film
Yeah, I just uh say there's a few people posting like spam bots or whatever in the chat
I'm trying to hide them, but I don't know if there's any mods on chat right now
Well, i'm actually not a I'm not i'm actually not a mod if you just say so in no module
If I say hide user on this channel, does that hide it for everyone? I don't know if that's a mod. Yes, it does
Okay, I just we will fix this
Oh, yeah, I'll just start hiding people now
There you go. Racks. That's a bit
Ad moderator
Oh, yes
rags has the power
People are saying I wasn't a mod because i'm just a guest which is fair
I don't know. Yeah
Actually geeks and gamers are complaining. They got a whole swarm of mods on their stream the other day. So, uh, sorry swarm of bots
Not mods
Don't be weird
um
but yeah, uh, the other thing I wanted to mention was uh
I spent I sent the conversation to rag cj
Was posting on twitter about how double ads are turning up on youtube. Apparently. I don't know. I haven't looked into that whether or not
Yeah, i've noticed it on my phone for a while now and he asked uh
If anyone else is seeing that and then some guy was like, well, I don't see it because I have ad block and then
Cj was like, oh, but it'd be cool if you whitelist
Like, you know channels that you want to support whatever and the guy's little response was uh,
Uh, how about you get a real job?
Yeah, and like
He was uh, I kind of want to pull it up just so i'm not misrepresenting the poor man
Uh, i've got it. That's that's what he said. He's like basically get a real job
And then he refuted get like I said get a real job
Cj said that's incredibly narrow-minded of you and he said why would I waste money and data on ads?
And she just said I don't know maybe so you can
So the people who put dozens of hours of work into producing something you can enjoy without paying for it by the way
Uh can get something back from it and potentially earn a living from it
And then the response to that is the day you get a real job. Feel free to reply
And you know ratioed
You know the concept of being ratioed this has three likes and 96 replies
Response isn't fucking priceless for a lot of these there's a picture of goofy hours
All the hours spent editing was imaginary hours that didn't really exist. Yeah, it's not work
It's not well
This is the thing uh some people have replied to me saying you do realize semantically that what you do doesn't count as a job
And I was like have you looked at the definition of job?
Like it's work that I do that gives me money people that used to support yourself
I don't see how you can't consider a job when you have a patreon open like at least with ad sense
You can make an argument about how you've got no boss and it's based on something that could be taken away in a second
Blah blah blah even then I think it's a job
But when you have a job can be taken away in a second exactly
As we say like people work on zero hour contracts already it doesn't uh
Oh, it's fucking the whole thing is bullshit and i'm just like whatever
Whatever thing you draw as like a this is why your thing doesn't count as a job
Then there's going to be an example you go, but this is a job, isn't it?
And how does this count and then they'll be like, oh there's loads of conversations on my twitter
I like that right now like independent journalists. Apparently that's not a job now
It's independent anything isn't a job contractors commissions. No, that's a male porn star a job
That's a privilege
Um, yeah, this is one of the replies. I thought it was really funny good old memes
Go ahead and put the
Fuck you
Um
Valiant soldier in the meme war. Yeah, I felt like you know, maybe it's worth saying something about it
But I was like, is this something that needs to be said like
The idea of referring to making money online. It's like it's not a real job
I was like, what the fuck do you mean real do these imaginary job like what you work if you're not working in a factory
producing
iron ingots
It's not a real if you if at the end of the day you don't have a big hole
A ditch where dirt used to be that's not a real job
Well, then they're fakie jobs
Yeah, and so to me i'm just like if they're gonna pull the card of it's a semantic thing and you need to realize
That it doesn't count i'd be like no, it's a semantic thing. You really need to realize it does count
especially in this day and age christ
Anyone yeah, like all of the all of the graphic artists who made godzilla king of the monsters
That's not actually a job. Oh, no, it's not
I just love the idea that people who take commissions regularly
Say that they have a job, but you'd be like not really
It's not really it's not really a job
And if they said like you're not paid regularly by a corporation that has a boss that's on a
A regular time contract that gets like health benefits or something like that. Just be like, what the fuck is all that?
Why does that define that you have a job?
Blow out your ass exactly exactly
He's just mad because he probably has a shitty job. That's what's going on
Why don't you just go down the alleyway and blow dudes for a nickel each? That's a real job
And then you you know, once that conversation is over as well. You start to think like what that was just reply to cj saying
Hey, these people work really hard. His response is tell me when you get a real job
You sound friendly yeah, you must be great at parties
Um, but anyway, I think I think uh, that we've been here long enough to now say like welcome to efab 37
We're almost to that beautiful four. Oh is everyone excited what we're gonna do when we get to five. Oh rags
You don't do something special. We will have a a special guest
Godzilla king of the monsters
I mean i'm not against it. He could be if I stitch left he was upset at godzilla. He's returned
Did I say by accident racist
That's his that's his brother I get him confused because he's the one with the smiley face
Yeah, we we have lots to talk about lots to cover everything is going to be so great
And uh, I believe this is the last episode that will not feature the wolf man. So
You know enjoy it while you can folks because he's
He's coming back probably we're gonna have to string this one out make those hours count
Um
Since you did just leave and come back. Are you there mr.
Sitch I am back my discord temporarily stopped working
How would you do this is your introduction? Welcome to the show
I've been watching your content for a decent amount of time now. Um
as has rag is uh
Yeah, you you've been watching my horrible nazi content. I think I have
Every day I stray further and further into the alt right quagmire
You know, you know baller leads you to rags leads you to psas leads you to fucking pewdiepie leads you to ben Shapiro
It's like oh god
um
but yeah, uh, I actually I think the first video of girls I watched was the um,
sort of clarifying the whole cub scouts thing or
Uh, the girls and boy scouts. That's the one
um
Yeah, and I I believe you found some success recently with shitting on um a tv show that everyone's really enjoying right now
Godzilla
Kill the monsters
That's right. Why am I wasting my time with why with politics?
Obviously, you just got to shit on movies and tv shows. That's where that's where the youtube books. Ah, that's hot
That's hot
I mean does this mean uh, you're gonna switch over now to criticize and stuff like aladdin like uh, the implication of that mean
Well, look if i'm if h bomber guy who's a total ponce can go back and forth between
Politics and and media then someone like me who's not a ponce can do that, too
Oh
So, I mean it'll be interesting to see if we get anything like as disastrous as game of thrones again
It's like we're gonna need to get a new tv show that's built up over eight years
Um
You ruin it
Uh
It was pretty bad though, huh? I assume you've been watching it like where did you get started watching it?
I I watched game of thrones from the beginning
All the way back in the day. Did you read the old book arenas?
And I read I think I got to season two and I was like, oh I need to find out what happens next
So I read, uh, three four and five which are out at the time and I guess are still the only things that are out
That's the same. Yeah, nothing has happened since 2011
so
And I don't know because like it's it's kind of the problem where after you read the source material like everything starts to seem
kind of worse
Yes
No, that's just realizing how shit the show is in comparison
I mean, it's just true. It could have just been it could have gone downhill after season two. Anyway, so
Yeah, you're not being tricked. You just know better now. The weird wolf was timed out by rags for 300 seconds. Why?
Listen we're gonna talk about power
And how i've just made him moderate is so how I i've been a guest for
37 times 30 30 37 times
Give or take
Which means that I have the power now
Might makes right. I am like captain marvel
I have the power which means that I can bully whatever man I wish for whatever reason that I deem necessary
All of me and despair king of the moderators
uh
But what did a video on the captain marvel scene it was kind of funny watching his takes he was trying to be neutral and uh
But he he's like describing the events like, um, this man is clearly offering help
He's doing it in a potentially suggestive way. But if you
Look at it objectively. He's uh being friendly
Um with a possibility of a flirtatious attitude
He's like do it very robotically. Then when he shows the scene of her electrocutive and he falls to the ground he goes
This is assault
So like dry like yes, yes it is
But um, yeah, what what what was with the fucking
the mass like flagging or copyright claiming of those videos like um
They seem to be released now
But like was this was this some kind of knee jerk reaction from?
Disney or something or was it just an accident because a lot of people I heard that it was they were manual
I don't know if my one well
So the interesting thing is that the the moolah one got taken down
But the moolah one didn't and obviously the moolah one's harder to find so because it's unlisted
So maybe it was a bunch of manual
Uh-oh, we're getting too popular for our own good
Shut it down. But yeah, I uh, it was interesting because like, you know, everyone's getting released slowly
So I just don't know what the fuck their plan was in the first place if it was something they weren't gonna like see
Through to the end if you know what I mean
Just give us immediately wondering if maybe they decided it looked too bad and they just weren't going to release it at all publicly
So they're just gonna try to take everything down hide the evidence
Well, um
It really works because it just got even more fucking coverage for uh, like people like wow this captain barber person is a piece of shit
And you know what there was gonna be a different first video, but I now feel like this is too perfect to lead into. Um
We have covered brown table before I can't remember why because he's one of the most
Like he slips in with the rest of the video essay crowd
Um all the standard things that he does but he released a video recently called we're still arguing about captain marvel
And uh, it's like I don't you know immediately I was like, okay
Is that a problem and I watched the first few minutes of it and I was like, oh, this is bad. Um
Sometimes you get you look at people and you're like, why did you get inspired to make such a like stupid irrelevant video?
I don't know like just yes, we're talking about captain barber
Did you see the fucking thing that got released and people like it's a deleted scene. Why does it matter?
It's like we were told by the police they were gonna put it in
I mean fuck have you seen some of the like there's some deleted scenes out there
They're fucking amazing when it comes to movies
Was it was it say to their you know when they were filming it someone was smart enough in post-production to cut the scene out
Because they said okay
This is this is too far
But then someone in the marketing department was like hey if we put this scene out there
This will piss everyone off and get us like good publicity. So we're gonna do it for the outrage
I feel like that's why yeah, because I could tell any editor with his salt would be like
We can't have this scene in the movie
This is really bad
It's like this legit makes her a villain she's supposed to be not that she's supposed to be the protagonist hero
I mean it makes her seem like a robot trying to just chase people down and kill them mercilessly
I uh, I told you rags, but I showed my sister and her boyfriend this thing
Captain Marvel at this point and they're both just like what the fuck like
She's the hero person like
Yeah, this is our protagonist hero and then I just like the idea that someone's like, yeah, she's not you know
She's not gonna fit in with the fucking framework for male heroes. She's gonna break break the glass
Model she's gonna do stuff. That's not
Yeah, it's just like okay. So hero 101 it's like you need to take these writers back to school
You're like heroes don't typically abuse people and steal their things like why I can see they see chalkboard. They just write out hero equals good
rule one
Like why is it but the but the man was harassing her and you're like, uh
She was fighting the patriarchy guys anything's acceptable
Embarrassing but yeah, uh is everybody in the watch together?
This is going to be exciting
I am but I just got a spinny wheel of death at the moment
What about now?
Oh, there you is. That's wicked. Don't it's this guy. This is brown table apparently
Um, there's only a six minute video. So this should be nice and easy for us. And yeah, it's yeah two hours. Just do it
Let's see what he has to say on march 8th
Of 2019 captain marvel hit theaters. I've never seen so much hate and vitriol for a movie
In such a long time people are still I mean it was really bad
It was awful and it hasn't been that long. I mean march april may
basically
Almost three almost three months. That's nothing
And you cannot undermine like the the importance of this delete seat get a reveal because everybody was fucking talking about it on twitter
So it's just going to reignite all the conversations about captain marvel
But um, what's what's the what's the last movie you guys remember getting hated to shit?
ghostbusters 2016
No, ghostbusters was 2016. I mean the last jedi was oh, that's true. Yeah last jedi is much more recent
Um movies that people really hated
Um, I gotta don't say games but movies the predator
Yeah, I would agree with you if only more people were fucking aware of the film because it seems to have been forgotten already
I just say on a smaller scale. Yeah, it was basically a tlj
No
People mostly liked that film. I think you know people are retarded. That is true
But tlj didn't manage to sub, you know, get past that
That it didn't survive on the raft of retarded people. I guess tlj was the big one. I suppose. Yeah. Yeah
Yeah, ghostbusters, uh people suggested avp and jet
Let's go with really far back star wars emissary one the phantom
Yeah
Yeah, it would be tlj. But yeah, you know this happens this totally happens
It is always interested to figure out why why did people get so angry at the thing?
Good to know that captain marvel was the one to knock tlj off the throne
All for a movie imagine that in such a long time people are still hating on this movie for the dumbest reasons now
Okay, it's not out yet so
Just months ago what I don't know something
Well, he said dumbest reasons now i'm assuming he's going to talk about the deleted scene like people hating on captain marvel for a deleted scene
Yeah, we'll see we'll see it's gonna be exciting
And it came out months ago spider-man's about to come out spider-man so
Yeah, what's the problem? What?
Do you guys remember how solo came out and no one gave a shit and kept talking about tlj
Yeah
I forgot solo exists and then someone made a video saying why are we still talking about tlj?
Solo's coming out solo
Nobody gives a shit. Well, obviously if a movie isn't out yet, there's less to talk about compared to the movie
That's out. I don't think spider-man makes it so that we no longer talk about captain marvel. That's a strange
All right, we know we know what's going on he's trying to fucking
Disvalue it while everyone's criticisms by going god. That film was three months ago. Get over it. This is come on. No
The whole point is absurd on top of that because no one's talking about the movie
They're talking about this specific clip that just came out
Yeah, and then when people from that clip say something like this is this isn't in the movie in the movie
She's a much better person than people be like is she though?
And then they talk about the movie and it's like oh, no
They talked about a movie as a result until you'd see no, no
Oh, no, they released content for something and people are talking about it. Ah, how dare you me?
Do you guys know that spider-man's coming out?
Yeah, it's not even out
It's not out yet. Every time I'm discussing just go wait, wait. Yeah, this is all cool
But did you know someone else is coming out in a few weeks time? Didn't you know Godzilla king of the monsters came out?
There you go. Don't fucking kill me king of the kill
Sorry
There were these new deleted scenes that started coming out and I really enjoyed them I thought they were good
I wish they were in what no, I need to what you didn't just say that things was good
Just to clarify as well were there other deleted scenes?
I didn't see the other ones they might have been but I didn't see them come out spider-man
We're still talking about captain marvel. There were these new deleted scenes that started coming out and I really enjoyed them
I thought they were good. I wish they were in the movie because they gave carol dambers. I feel a bit more character
That's my opinion. What the fuck?
Somebody somebody enchanted say there's apparently two more I guess that they were there and that nobody made a fuss about them
I guess how do they give it more character?
Well, they make her evil as opposed to literally to the character
She wasn't that evil. Well
She does blow everyone up. I don't know like I that's an interesting take i'd like to hear why
uh, the deleted scene where she abuses
Fucking steal shit from a guy is uh
My goodness, okay
And but there was one deleted scene
Yeah, twitter. Oh, yeah, sometimes people just disagree, you know, sometimes they just don't like a movie and you know, sometimes they just don't like women
Let's actually oh
Sometimes they just disagree. Yes. Ding ding ding boys 41 seconds. There we go. I was gonna say that was pretty quick nailed it
I'm at 39 seconds. I mean, oh, did you not did you you did hear what you said though, right?
I'm at 39. Well, oh, I will I will replay it or disagree
Oh, we'll let you hear that again rags. You'll love it disagree. You know, sometimes they just don't like a movie
You know, sometimes they just don't like women. Let's actually watch off
Well, how long did it take for that uh, like a lot the guy from last episode with the whole
Oh, yeah, i'm not saying you're a misogynist, but the next film yeah, you're a misogynist
Fuck it didn't take him long. Yeah, I don't know if you saw it
Sitch but we basically covered a guy who at the beginning of his video said
You can dislike captain marvel and not be a sexist. That's fine
And at the end he says look people are saying they didn't like captain marvel
It's not because of like they had a problem with x y or z it's because they're misogynists
Like it's yeah
Right, you don't like really strong women
Sometimes they don't like a movie. Sometimes they don't like women
How many of these people exist in the world that just rampantly hate women?
Where i've never met them. Yeah, I know neither of I
I keep being told they're everywhere
And there's like they're them and the nazis. They're hiding in every bush and under every rock and they're secretly controlling society
I've i've yet to see any of them
But that's just my lived experiences as a white male
Hey, man, i'm all about a legal life
All right
You haven't seen them rags because you haven't looked in a mirror
But I have
Have you seen that molar guy you made a two-hour video saying that the captain marvel shit because of women
Oh, yeah
Anyway, good thing we're on mueller's channel. Yep
Sometimes they just don't like women. Let's actually watch this deleted scene. Oh my watch this video
So captain marvel is minding our own business here. Uh, just reading and this fucking monster
This disgusting
tyrant
literal sexual assaulter
Look at the way he rides his bike. He's a fucking rapist
Marvel is minding our own business here. Uh, just reading this map and then uh, we get a let's get a douche
Nice scoop. No, it's don. Oh, no, he's a douche. He's a douche. No, there you go. No, he's don
He's not douche. He's the don like you can't just say that about the look at look at chat's lighting up already
It's the don here he is guys
How dare you how fucking dare you this is the man?
Fucking pretty sure he lost a child
Like we didn't even mention that when we were talking about the previous and the previous episode
All that other stuff that he suffered he even lost a kid and like no one cares about the dawn story
No one cares
All right, you need a ride. Oh, what did he do he nodded so
It was with commentary I guess and uh, how about smile for me, huh?
Okay, he's sexual harassment
Whoa
People
Imagine imagine filing this with the police is like i'd like to file sexual harassment. It's like, all right
Can you tell me what the aggressor did he's like, well, he called my space suit a scuba suit and they're like, okay
He asked if I would like a ride
And I declined and then he he said he wanted a smile
Like all right. Just tell me where he sexually harassed you ma'am
Why what do you talk about but that but that was it?
Why is this the take why why so many people coming away from this with this? What world are we in?
This is like the litmus test for fucking stupid people
Do they know what sexual harassment entails?
No, these people don't know anything about sex
But to be fair we don't know anything about women
20 seconds of life
Yeah, we went 20 20 seconds before we went from you know, uh, he just ate women to the next bit whoa sexual assault
I can't just like god
What rating was this film like 15 12? It's like at the beginning it says warning harsh language and rape
Yeah, the scenes of graphic violence are also a man
Sexually assaulted in the carol danvers. I mean, that's why they cut this scene from the movie. Otherwise, it would have been rated r yep
Audiences couldn't bear it. They were walking out of the cinema
In the test screenings they were like i'm glad she got you know, she managed to beat him back, but that was fucking hard to watch
It was it was a struggle but like you know that iconic pinball rape scene
Oh 2019 the iconic carol danvers map scene
Like it we would meme about this we would be like, oh this is so fucking uptight
A smile would be sexual harassment or a request for one that they like unironically say it and we're like, okay
Now we have to improve our jokes because apparently like they're not parody enough
Clown world everyone unbelievable, honestly a smile for me, huh?
Sexual harassment people call me
You're gonna give me your jacket your helmet and your motorcycle i'm curious how he's gonna fucking talk about this honestly
Well and in return i'm gonna let you
Keep your hand
So that's the scene that's what people are fighting each other about as a guy
If I had superpowers and a dude came up to me and it would be like hey
You want a ride?
If I can shoot laser beams out of my hands that guy would be toast. That's because you're a psychopath. That's yeah
That's because of a fucking psycho
Homophobe, come on
That's true. That's true
I can't believe he's like, okay with this
If a guy walked up to me and was like even if they were over about it like they were like, hey
Do you want to fuck? I'm like, um, i'm right instead of fucking killing him
Just to be glad he doesn't have a gun then because he doesn't need superpowers to obliterate someone if he doesn't like somebody say that
You just shoot him dead on the street if he lives in you. Well california wherever
I wish the don would ask me for a ride. Absolutely. Are you kidding me?
Can you imagine the stories you could tell I wish that I would I wish that I had that privilege
To be asked by the don for a ride
You know in fairness holding a psycho is like
That that under represents his perspective
Like if you look at what a psychopath is like they would go further than this like so
We have to give him a different. He's just a maniac. I don't know
Yeah
Like it's hard to respond to this because it's just like
You're kidding. It's so on its face
At face value this should be self-evidently a terrible horrible thing to do
But people are defending it because we have to protect captain marvel
Well, do you think this is anyone's honest opinion or is this just a hundred percent virtue signaling?
Look i'm on your side guys. I'm one of the good ones. I mean as a dude if this happened to me
Yeah
I think that they're saying I don't think they I don't know if they'd actually do it
But then again, you know, they're you know, the bob chitmans of the world are out there and they're
Like they're really really adamant about
You know wanting to exercise physical violence against people
They lament the fact that they can't do it
So rest in peace court should be more concerned with just
He should be more concerned with cholesterol. I was gonna say yeah with exercise in general not
diet
You kidding me. He's gorgeous
Have you seen his mario cosplay subjective
Um
Yeah, uh, we've talked about it in the previous stream
But just yeah rest in peace courtship courtship is dead because if you were trying to even
Like remotely try and court a lady or a member of the fucking species you're in
Careful. Yeah, well you could be going to jail
They're trying to completely flip on its head the norm of social interaction, which is men approaching women which the vast majority of women prefer
They want it to be where now women need to be the ones who approach men and that's just not generally what women do
women don't women like guys who are assertive who are who will show initiative
And women like to be complimented. Everyone likes to be complimented, but especially by strangers
Because this stranger doesn't have like a vested emotional interest in me. So when a stranger gives you a compliment you're like
Oh, wow, you know, it means a lot
Yeah, but they have to be attractive. It's an ugly stranger then it's harassment
The dawn is fucking gorgeous
He is gorgeous
He's a good-looking guy
I love it. By the way that uh, he says like I don't know why people are fighting over this like I don't know
Maybe it's because your take just now kind of tells us why people want to fight that take
He's fighting over it what's he talking about
Shoot laser beams out of my hands that guy would be toast. Let's go to twitter and uh
You'd kill him shit. So joey salads is like pretty much the
This is great marvel has created the worst. Yes
Yes, this is correct name a more unlikable hero in the mcu even fucking the whole of marvel
Here name a more unlikable villain
Joffrey was and I don't know if I can have one
And
Yeah, it's funny because like he wants to try and be like it's joey salads therefore the argument is dumb
It's like I think joey salads retarded, but I mean this is still a fair point
Most do you remember when joey salads, uh asked the question to uh, the panel that had a need to suck easier on it
Yep, that shit was funny. Well, he said something like like why why are you okay with?
Not okay with it happening to women, but you're okay with it happening to bad or something like that
Why how come you always act as if these are not problems men have this is the only problem that women have
Which is the picture that they paint you got booed out right or like sent away
No, he got cheered
But then it was a bit of both because it was the people who show up to listen to fucking anita sarkisian talk
Are probably not the brightest
people
I just generalized everyone and I don't regret a goddamn thing
You know, it's interesting too
Yesterday for a six hour. I took an enhanced concealed carry class yesterday. It was six hours
and
Such a huge part of that is having
the emotional
Judgment emotional control to exercise good judgment in situations
Um, because you literally have you know, it parallels the situation a little bit because if you carry a handgun with you
Then you literally have life and death power over everybody that you meet and so you have to use
You know good judgment and you have to exercise responsibility at all times
so in scenarios like this
Where in real life you have that kind of power the same power that essentially captain marvel has the power over people
Like if this guy did that, you know, if he if he said hey you want to ride i'm the don
Do a smile for me like do you think it would be legally justified for me to whip out a pistol and
Kill him. Do you probably say not legally? No, but morally yes
It's it's absolutely it's absolutely ridiculous
And I carry a glock 26 or my on my 17 chat, but
Like this is a real there's a very very direct real life comparison that you can make here
And once you substitute the superpowers for a firearm, oh now every oh now it's
Well target let's just say in a taser because he's of the electrical powers
He would he would actually tase a guy to the point where he could steal things from him because he doesn't want to be tased
anymore
Like he seems to be okay with this and I was like this is a problem, sir
Like this needs to be sorted out. You need to be spoken to
Has created the worst most unlikable
Ever sorry, I don't find what they said. I was gonna say that's what they said. Why are you making what they said?
I
Don't know if he knew that maybe didn't film likable when she nearly rips off a person's hand
And steals his stuff because he's a jerk off. She didn't get his hand off
He didn't say that
If you want to keep your hand
You better give me all your shit joey silence said she nearly rips off a person's hand
Meaning she was going to if he didn't fucking give up his shit and then his response is she didn't rip off his hand
She only threatened to it threatened to yeah threatened to threaten to maim somebody's fine
Like god god and steals his stuff because he's a jerk off
She didn't rip his hand off, dude. She she just like twisted it
She can rip through spaceships a little trash right there would literally blow me up
Fucking come on dude
It's like how do you control that at what point it's like the ziljak how to super how does superman fly faster?
You know
Like how do you measure your ability to all I can punch through the intergalactic warships?
Also, I can shake people's hands. How do you measure that one one tiny slip of your power level and you explode a city block?
Superman didn't crush his head. He just punched him to the point where he's unconscious like oh
Are you fucking me?
How do you ironically make this video?
This is this is so stupid
This is an adequate response. I feel by uh, my friend jonathan burdett. It's from films and stuff. Go check it out
It's great. Let's not forget thor being oh, oh, here we go. This is this is where oh, yeah
Okay, so we'll take this one by one. Let's not forget thor being a would-be warmonger
That's true
And in the beginning of thor he wants to wipe out jotunheim because they've sent ice giants to try and steal from asgard
Over the course of the movie. He realizes that you shouldn't genocide people because this is bad. Yeah, that's bad
Yeah, the film's established as part of his arc doctor strange refusing patience to keep his perfect record
um, I don't even know that that's that's
He takes like extremely
Patience that challenge him. Yeah, it's not about not to keep his perfect record
I don't know because I thought that he takes like crazy difficult stuff
Yeah, exactly. Because oh, that's too easy. I'm not doing it. And also the whole hippocratic oaf
Like he it's character. I mean, I can't remember that. I don't even like that film
So yeah, look at chat thor faced the consequences. Yes, he did
He lost all of his shit because of his decision to be an asshole yet exiled to a distant planet
Oh rocket raccoon
Wait, wait, wait. I was gonna say if chat has any more information on that because I can't remember if dr
Strange refuses patience based on keeping a perfect record. I don't know if that happens. I don't think so
I think it's just stuff that challenges him
And if anything that's good in a way because lesser things other other less talented doctors could handle
He takes the cases that are like really really difficult that potentially only he can fix rubbers three said
No, there was he didn't want an uncurable patient to screw his record. He said it directly. Oh
Gotcha
Yeah, but the whole point with dr
Strange is like he starts off and he's the egotistical asshole and then he becomes he's a better person
The film totally portrays him as a complete asshole in the beginning
Carol stays the same
Yeah, yeah carl just realizes that she's a badass carol realizes she was right all along
Yeah, dr. Strange has grown
But like even then like dr. Strange isn't going to take an incurable patient. I was about to I was about to say
Curable the idea that he doesn't take an incurable patience like well
Yeah, I mean if they're gonna die there's a pragmatic reason why you should say uh instead of trying to cure someone who's incurable
Maybe we should treat someone who's got a chance at living
Oh, apparently the guy who
Lost feeling in his legs. That was someone that he refused to work on and then obviously he was surprised because the guy got fixed
But it turns out magic fixed it
Hmm yeah, oh right magic. Yeah, this is what I mean. I love it when they generalize. It's like there's so much context to talk about
That really doesn't judge it from judge from this guy. Just taking a wild guess here
Um, you probably hate dr. Strange because he works the american health system. Anyway, he's like evil by because of capitalism wasn't fit
Anyway for a piece of shit. He also watches also, um
Essentially, we have to remember that this entire tweet is what about ism. Absolutely
Uh, what if what if all these people are bad too? That might be true. Sure
You you haven't you haven't lifted up captain marvel. You've just dragged down everyone else
Yeah, and completely unsuccessful because the next next example is rocket raccoon being a self-sabotaging asshole. I'd be like that is true
Rocket raccoon is completely he's portrayed as probably the most morally dubious out of the entire guardian
If you want to talk straight
So we got wonder woman who everyone is treating as like, you know a female empowerment icon blah blah
You know, she's great. This empowers women and all that. Nobody is fucking pitching the torch for rocket raccoon
Nobody's saying oh, man. I want to be like yeah, he he he's the
He's the moral god on everything
He's fucking he's a raccoon. Come on
Jay said it's not what about ism because salads was comparing captain marvel to other heroes already
I don't think that was in the tweets. He showed I haven't seen joey salads selection of tweets
Yeah, but uh, you wouldn't need to do that. You wouldn't need to be like other heroes. Don't do it
I'd be like that's not why it's bad
It's not bad because other heroes refuse to beat people up
Um, just look at the punisher. He's done so much worse than carol
Doesn't uh rocket have like a bit of redemption arc in rocket
Self-sabotage is like a part of his character as well as sabotaging those around him because he's not
I'm pretty sure this was the second film's about he just like
Can't deal with he doesn't want to be open. He can't deal with having connections. He doesn't know how to deal with it
Yeah, and he like he's a sympathetic character
He's literally did he in the first ones like say he didn't want to be
Bored into this body or ever. I can't remember basically. Yeah, because he has that chat with um, yandu
Yeah, yeah, because he's a lab experiment and he's not he wasn't
Oh jay said
He's referencing when he called it the most unlikable. I mean you can't even say that's objective. Anyway, it's a fucking likability, right?
It's just the i'm pretty sure that was a snide comment that most people would agree though
Yeah, I would agree with it. I think she I find it harder to like than any other hero in marvel
Like I I basically see her and treat her like she's a villain
Hanging out with heroes. Yeah, she's like I guess I could do this whatever. Um
but yeah, so
Finally peter quill compromising a mission to brutally kill dudes to get his walkman. Yeah, uh, that's I don't know if that's morally
That's an interesting
No, not the shit i'd almost say they're worthless, but they were convicts. Let's just keep our mind
They're outlaws. They're the the the whole they save the galaxy and they get pardoned
But then they they're told if you commit more crimes, we're going to arrest you
Yeah, let's let's remember that all of these scenarios that he's mentioned. These are bad things bad things
These films show us that these are bad traits of characters
Right, and they're removing the because the whole context of guardians of the galaxy is that you have this
Band of misfits who are all damaged people and they're all trying to make their way in the universe
And that there's no context like that for carol
Well people have been saying she didn't understand earth's customs. She didn't understand
Uh how to behave with boba and I was like, she literally describes herself as a warrior hero to fucking nikiri
Okay, 30 seconds later
Well, well, yeah, if she doesn't understand earth's customs, what are her customs then? Ah might is right
And how would she not they call it
Planet c38 or some shit like that. It's like they must be aware of what earth is and what they do there
It would be fine
If if they had if they set up in the movie that she does not she's not aware of earth customs
And they have her acting crazy and then the movie points out like whoa, you're acting crazy
You need to calm down then it would be fine, but that doesn't happen
Yeah, you're right. That doesn't happen. Yeah
And let's say yeah and go back to quill it's like, you know
And yeah char cracking this or it's a walk. It's the actual uh, mixtape itself from his mom. That's
Like yeah
Compromising mission to get back his only memory of his mother
Well, just figure the affinity war. He's not pragmatic. He blew it. He blew it then as well
He's he's not
He's an actual account. He he he's flawed
Fuck me like but
Yeah, he acts more well he acts on emotion more than pragmatism. Fuck me, right? But
Oh
Yeah, the problem is the the films I mean he does
When he it says brutally killed dudes like the guy he I don't even know he kills them. He uses the stun feature on his um
On his guns. It's the electric shit
but he also they're all the fucking guard people who beat the prisoners regularly and the one that he
Specifically does it too at the end is the one that stole the walk man and beat him up for it
Yeah
Again context really gets in the way of these points, doesn't it?
Well, it's not just that I mean like literally every character
They that in that tweet just they they either go through some redemption or they go through some character growth
That changes them from their initial position of being an asshole or you know, an o4 or whatever
And yeah, as sish said, yeah carol doesn't do that. It doesn't happen to her. She just remembers that she's awesome and then
end of plot
This is a terrible argument is our point
In short, yeah
It's part of what makes it terrible. He should have really compared carol to godzilla. I mean, come on
You know, how can you like godzilla? He's stepping on hundreds of people
Carol twist one guy's arm. It's not so bad. Oh, yeah, man. She didn't snap it off
You know
Kill him
She unanimously allowed him to keep his hand. She did she could have refused that
She was going to rip his arm off
But then she heard the ghost of uncle ben say with great power comes great responsibility. She's like, oh, okay
I'll only hurt him. I won't kill him. It's a shame. This doesn't have the iron man reference. They go iron man sold weapons guys
Oh and suddenly yeah, yeah
We talked about that before me. Um, but uh a lot of people brought that up and it was like
Yeah, the thing that literally starts his entire character
Yeah, I guess what by the end of the first film
Stop doing it. He already put an end to his weapon projects or
M.O.D's or whatever or wmd's or whatever. He already done it. He did it the first film
Yeah, it's almost like the film was implying that that wasn't a good thing that he was doing
We did we had then he spends the rest of the fucking films trying to undo the damage of it
And like, you know, like obviously an ultron he's trying to come up with like a game plan or an end plan to defend it
From any outside forces and it's like yeah
These weapons might fall into the wrong hands or they might go wrong like ultron did but you know, that's another story
but yeah, it's
You know, you remember in bruise l
The uh in the bruise the scene where uh, they're talking about the potential for people to get better, um in general
And uh, oh, yeah, harry says, um, we've all got the potential to get better
You go. Oh, we got the potential to change and then uh, brandon gleason goes
Yeah, you do you have the potential to get fucking worse and it just reminds me of um, like that's captain marvels
Like she goes from beating up the dawn because he like apparently fluted with her at the end of the film. She fucking blasts. Uh
Jude law
When when it like drags him across the desert when he can't do shit
Yeah, she has the capacity to get worse
This is the thing if they turn her into a villain it'll be worth it
He'll be worth it
And she was so ready and the dawn was so ready in his, you know infinite generosity
Well, you accept it. He was glad to get a handshake from her. So you'd think all captain marvel had to do was just be
I mean man, like really you couldn't have said oh actually
Yeah, I do need to ride someplace because she literally did I want to see that movie where he gives her a ride
And then like along the movie he learns to treat her with with more respect or something
I would go for that instead of what we got
Yeah, and don is like how she talks with the dawn about how you know, this is how earth works
Here's how earth, you know stuff happens and he's like the guiding thing and they start to form a connection maybe but then at the end
She's like I know I like you, but I have to go there's so many things I have to do and he knows about the alien stuff
He's like I understand and and then and then that was a better movie that we didn't get
Yeah, but then you'd be rewarding the sexist behavior look none of this matters thor was an asshole at the beginning of his movie, okay
It's interesting
But it's like we're at the point now where it's basically if you want to be in a relationship with a woman you're a sexist
right
Jay said if they do a civil war too, I feel sorry for any heroes that are on her side
I mean they'll get to live I mean she's so OP you could just have all of them against her and it would be uh
You'd still be right. She'll literally kill every single one of them. Well, well the opposer, but yeah
That'd be a great film
Would be warmonger or dr
Strange refusing patients to keep his perfect record or rocket raccoon being a self-sabotaging asshole
well, this whole thing is absurd because no one is
Is saying that any of these things that he's listing are good things people are saying what carol did was a good thing
Yeah, and not how are these on the same level as like abusing and stealing from somebody who's innocent?
I think they're trying to frame it as a oh when these characters did this you said nothing when a woman did it you said this
I think that's how they're trying to frame it
Right, but but people weren't saying like oh, I love the part where dr. Strange was an asshole
It was like one guy
Yeah, there's one guy
Well, these have justifications is my point these these have you can you can go to the source and be like well
Thor didn't just want to destroy a whole realm
It was because they'd broken their peace treaty or whatever and the um, he wanted to have a show of force or whatever
And he's like, oh, okay. I can see why he made that decision
The point the point is that the internet at large wasn't rewarding these characters for this quote unquote poor behavior or bad behavior
I'm warning them for moving on from it
Yeah
I mean fuck yeah people would downright call it formulaic at this point to see a movie where in the opening 10 minutes the hero
does something overtly
Evil slash bad that's related to the characters
We're like, oh, this is the thing that'll it'll be fucking coaxed out of them by the end of it
Hopefully but with captain marvel is downright celebrated. You're like, oh
What's uh, that man's real name scott something, isn't it?
Uh, scott. Yeah, scott. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's a dick as well. And uh,
Am I one? Is he a dick? I thought he was nice
He's a criminal. He was a criminal. Yeah
All right. Yeah, wrong word
He's criminal scum then. All right. Yeah to the point where you can't get it like land a job because people
I misremember it now. I'm sorry because he was a white male. I assumed he was a dick by default, you know, but
Um, how you you know, you're a good man. You're good
Of my own kind
Semantic dragon and chap, but wait more. Why are we talking about captain marvel? Isn't spider-man coming out soon?
This is it yeah
A convict with a heart of gold that's pretty much the way to describe scott. Yeah
That'd be a bear. Yeah description. He's not a dick and again
If they were like seeing they portray his convict. This is a good thing. It's like they do not and you know it
That's not a thing. Shut up
No, they're done
I'm sorry. I was gonna talk more about that. But yeah, go on. I'm sorry. It's lagging from anyway
Oh lagging for me too. Hmm. I'll be alone 250. Oh no
I'm stuck on 215
212 from rocket raccoon being a self-sabotaging asshole where peter quill compromising a mission to brutally kill dudes to get his walkman
No, he's not
He's right. You know what scene we didn't see we didn't see someone go. Hey peter. You're cute and then he beat her
Yeah, that's not a scene we saw
Oh, yeah, that'd be great. Yeah, gamora starts hitting on him and he fucking assaults her
I love how smug they are about this like see same thing. You're just sexist. It's like no
Not even a little bit. Yeah
I don't know why this is so hard to understand like most people are arguing just swap the genders
They'd understand i'm like, I don't think that they would I think they'd see it as like well power dynamics guys power dynamics
He's right, i'm not saying everybody who hates this scene is a sexist because that's dumb
But but I do think that everybody who hates this scene would hate wolverine
Wolverine is such a villain right tim pool. Whoa. I never saw this clip, but damn
This is how I found out about it was tim pool's too. Yeah, captain marvel is a villain
Also, wait, so that that clip he just showed of wolverine, uh, that's in x-men one and it's when a guy
Isn't like doesn't a guy threaten him
I'm pretty sure shotgun at him. Yeah. Yeah, the bartender has a shotgun on him and someone I think it's because they think he's cheating
or whatever, right
I think it's after the yeah, I think it's after the cage match where he beats a guy. Well in the cage match
and then
Maybe he like he pulls a gun on him or something like that says are you over me another round or something?
I can't remember
He's in the cage match and they find out he's a mutant or something
I'll just right. I'll just
Uh
But again, it's like pouring seeds as a shotgun like butter
honestly in
Well in trying to pull a clip up the show wolverine being a bad person like that's the clip you go for that
That's a really poor choice. Anyway, i'm sure there's a better one to
uh mischaracterize the arguments, but
Right, but no one is celebrating the beginning of x-men wolverine is like a down-and-out hobo and participating in cage fights
Like no one's like yeah, that's the part of wolverine. I like
A guy says like you owe me some money. Nobody takes a beating like that and has nothing to show for it
I've pulled up the script just to try and find
Uh, I got dialogue here. You owe me some money stew
Let's not do this. No man takes a beating like that without a mark to show for it
He pulls a knife on him
Yeah
And the guy basically thinks he's cheating because he's like, how do you get punched this much and not have any bruises?
And then wolverine says you lost your money you keep this up. You're gonna lose something else
And then they attack him. Yeah, this is not the same
That you can't make that reference. So so so he's literally in self-defense there. Yep. Um
So you're gonna have to cite a different scene
If you want to call him a dick for cheating in a a human v human fight because also they don't know he's a he's a
All right
Yeah, I think you'd have a better argument to say that he's unethically allowing himself to compete in a completely unfair fight
I mean I mean same context carol is cheating don because she's masquerading as a poor defenseless woman in a scuba suit
And notice how the wolverine leaves he leaves. Yeah, he could have killed all of them
Yeah, yeah, he literally he flaunts his power without assaulting them and then he walks out
and then
He just says basically don't mess with me I can hurt you
But i'm not I had the power to but I didn't you're you're both fine
You're both fancy said it's not self-defense if wolverine is immortal. Um, the thing is even if you're immortal like well
well, he's not even immortal he's
Because we I mean if you see logan which is in continuity, he's not immortal but uh
Uh getting shot with a shotgun in the face, even if you have regenerating skin and everything it's not gonna be fun
It's not not a thing you want to have happen. Yeah, like you you have the right to protect yourself
Anyway, I want to see I want to see if he actually does have an argument against wolverine instead of just a fucking two second clip
Damn captain marvel is a villain. She straight hurts and robs a dude because he was a jerk to her
That's a villain. I would have framed that as she straight up robs beats up and robs a dude because she wants
Transport like villains do that because they don't give a shit about how the owner would feel that you'd be like I need this
It's mine now
Yeah, basically. Yeah, what part of that is wrong?
Some people compared it to captain america and um, I think it's winter soldier and like people's responses. Um, he
Literally took a car and immediately says um, I think someone says you just stole a car and he's like we're borrowing it
Like the the idea is that even they know that they need to clarify it for people watching so like captain america's
Okay with stealing stuff. It's like well, no if it's for the greater good, but with captain marvel, she's just casually like
Yeah, I guess I could use that motorbike
I know you literally I know you literally just offered me a ride
but instead
And they could have they could have avoided it
They could have fixed the scene so easily you just have
The guy come in from behind her and like slap her ass or something
You know actually sexually assault her in some way and then you're like, okay, maybe it's justified
I was I would revamp the whole scene
I mean if I was to change that scene, I'd be like can we just change the whole fucking film?
Can we just fix all of it? Well, yeah, obviously delete the whole film
How about instead of captain marvel waking up? She never wakes up. Oh, I like it. Oh, yeah, it's a small change a little change
She just goes ejected into a life pod and she's just drifting out in space for the next 1200 years
I'd watch it. I'd watch it. I'd be like
Will this kill her please please please please robs a dude because he was a jerk to her. That's a villain
You know, this would have never happened
If captain marvel
was never
sexually harassed
Oh wow, this is fucking insane. Yeah, this is actually fucking insane god, this is so hard to watch the argument
Yeah, the hinge of the argument is uh, could you smile sexual harassment?
It's like that's the thing we've now we've now
Established that if you ask a woman to smile that is sexual harassment therefore
That justifies
A B C D E on it that you can do against them. I'll see you in the courtroom. I want to smile like your honor
Yes, he was abused. Yes. He's he's got a broken hand. He's been electrocuted. He's lost his property
I'm saving this video. I might make a fucking response to it. This is insane. This is absolute because I hadn't seen this part of it
But yeah, you know like but your honor he did ask her to smile you should be like
What the fucking are you trolling the court like this is like this is a meme argument
He looks like pogchamp right now the fucking meme from uh
I think this is the first video that i'm saving on my new computer as well. Good job. Mp
Mpgun.com. This is a brown table as well. Like he's usually a little better than this
He's like narrowly. I don't know
Ah, we get the best quality for you download
I'm saving this shit. I'm gonna respond to this. It's gonna be
Fucking oh by the way new video tomorrow
New video. Yes, we're still arguing about carpal because you make shitty fucking videos like this that are absolutely
Just no, it's not over because at least if you look at the video, it's got some dislikes
There's a significant chunk of it. Let's look at these top comments
Uh, let's see if anyone here is
Yeah, so people are talking about how he was wrong about relating the other heroes because they it's portrayed as bad events
I really want to oh you've already got a comment on there. I just
Well, we made it 40 seconds
Jesus christ
I'm surprised no one's talking about the fact that he's just justified it as
sexual harassment
Yeah, uh
Insane absolutely insane. Let's I don't know how well like how this video can get you worse, but let's just let's see I guess
I agree. Sarah Kamala's reactor
Woman defends herself from a man harassing her men on twitter put her in jail. That shouldn't be allowed. She's
Um, I of course you would agree with this absolutely brain-dead take
Oh, that's what I mean like if I was making this one, I mean gedelv is just funny
It's like this is what I would do if making a parody video
Right, yes, what else can I say assault people and steal their property because they ask you to smile
How do you defend yourself from a man harassing you
If someone harasses you like if you consider that harassment if if someone comes up to you
And they say something insulting to you
Then basically all you can do is say something insulting back because anything more than that is a huge
gross overreaction
Like unironically because they say things to you
Like unironically if he came onto like this show i'd be like you have a problem
We should probably talk about it and he'd probably be like laughing and i'd be like no seriously now
like
It's disturbing that you consider this defense from sexual harassment
We need to really define these words again because I don't know where you learned
What they mean?
Yeah, I was like, I don't know if you had a father figure in your life or something
I don't know what issue you might have personally because it's clear that you have some kind of issue here
Where you will justify this kind of scenario. I mean, let's just flip let's flip the genders
Let's say a woman goes up to a man
And says hey, you should uh, how about you smile for me?
And he just beats the shit out of her like well, it's the exact same thing
Imagine i'm grabbing the hand and crushing it and feel like wincing in pain
People would like that scene would genuinely be like this is disgusting
Well, yeah, because they always go on and i'm a power guy name
In this scenario captain marvel is basically god power and this is just a mere mortal guy
Who cannot affect her in any way?
So all it's almost it's almost like it's crazy
But it's almost like these sjw types have no fucking values or principles
Well, I was gonna say funny you mentioned about the uh
I'll see the the power dynamics and the gender roles also general reversal
Have you guys ever seen the video?
Of a couple the actors it's a purely stage
But it's a man and a woman and they pretend to be a couple and they pretend to have a row
In like the middle of a crowded street in london or something
And when the woman is being the aggressor where she's
Not hitting but she's doing a lot of finger points
She's doing a lot of grabbing by the scruffy t-shirt shouting and giving him abuse
Everyone who's spectating it is all just laughing and going
What happened it's funny
Oh look she's telling him she's telling him
And then as soon as the boyfriend or the male actor does the exact same thing and he's not like, you know, he's not
he's not um
Up in the intensity of the aggression like, you know by slapping or anything
He's just doing the exact same thing raising his voice shouting and her belittling her and everything else everyone's like, oh, whoa
Whoa, you can't say this you can't do that to this woman. No, no, no, and yeah, but
The dynamics are you well more skewed in this case as you said, yeah, she's not even fucking a woman. She's not
What's a little disturbing about those videos as well is that when you watch the comparisons?
I'm always a little bit antsy about the guy being like attacked by some would-be hero
I'm always like careful even when you
Fane these sorts of scenarios if you like point and shout at a girl you could have some fucking idiot tackle
You'd be like get away from here
But yeah, it's really bad because yeah people just laugh when it's the guy and like how is this not one of the greatest examples?
Of culture being fucked you feel like you literally have a woman abusing the shit out of a man and people like he she's defending
herself like wow
All right, it seems like a backwards take but sure
Evil if you think these tweets are exaggerating
They're not because
There's a counter argument gentlemen
You
It's loading for me. Yeah, it's loading for me as well. I'll pull it back once it be allowed. She's evil
These tweets are exaggerating
They're not hang on. Sorry. Where are we because I was just it was 301. Yeah, I'll pull it back to 258
He's evil. If you think these tweets are exaggerating
They're not because we just saw yeah a tweet that said I agree
It's just a 320 for me and he's got way ahead though
Yeah, i'll pull it back yourself to like three minutes
The dental free. Yeah. Yeah
Okay, i'm reading there you go
Is that free?
We just saw okay a tweet that said this exact same thing
Unironically now the audio is running for me, but the image is frozen. What the fuck you have to give it a little bit of time
So i'm going to scoot it back to 252. All right, give it a second for it to
Do you think it's right one? Yeah, because I think with once together if you
Tiny increments it doesn't really catch up on so you gotta yeah, it like let's it play more for others or whatever
All right
Woman defends herself from a man harassing her men on twitter put her in jail. It shouldn't be allowed
She's evil. If you think these tweets are exaggerating
They're not because we just saw
A tweet that said this exact same thing
Unironically no, that's correct. Her tweet is exaggerating the events in the film
It's not exaggerating people's response
per se like that's not even
Much of my shock when he's mischaracterizing it
I know well, it's it's interesting too because you you look at tim's tweet and he says captain marvel
He's talking about an individual and then you look at the response and it's like a woman and a man
Like every woman is every woman and every man is every man and you can't hold people's actions
You know as individuals responsible, did you know that there's no female that can uh physically overpower any man?
You know, that's not possible. Not possible. Yeah, it's no matter the age or
Exercise or fitness, whatever. It doesn't matter. None of it matters
Yeah, it's doubly interesting because it is a scientific fact and science is sexist. So just goes to show how true it is
Well, how do you think you've got the other one? It's racist too. Oh, guys
There's a law explanation. So adding drag just said on the kree home world asking someone to smile as akin to stabbing their mother
You're culturally egocentric
Well, we've already established that captain marvel doesn't give a shit about her parents. Oh, that's true. That's true
I was gonna say I mean like you know, if you want to if you want to compare to animals, you know
The whole barren teeth for you know with primates, you know if they bear the teeth, it's a it's a sign of aggression. So
I I understand that smiling is a sign of aggression obvious. She's a fucking she's a fucking ape
fuck
Wait, let's read the replies
Yo
What a villain bro
Everyone calmed down. It's okay. It's okay people are stupid
A sword he was about to
He was about to inflict violence against him
The dude was about to attack him with a sword
Why does this have to be explained?
He's about to go full ala akbar on him and you fucking like yep
No, that's the same as captain marvel same thing
and besides indiana jones isn't exactly
100 a hero like he's he does a lot of morally he literally steals artifacts from other countries to play some museums
How sexist is this guy that he thinks a man trying to stab another man with a sword is equal to a man asking a woman to smile
He's just spitting the sword he's like can you smile for me
He's just like no
Like I can smile for you. What's the sword about it's like? Oh, no, it's just you just trying to show the cool sword trick
Yeah, that was it. Yeah
Well, you could be a sword dancer thing, you know
I can't these people aren't real
It's like yo imagine yo, man
Imagine thinking that asking someone to smile is literally on the same level as pulling out a fucking sword
I mean you had no idea what that man's intention was he might have wanted to hug him with us
Jesus christ
What a villain bro, are you high? No, he's just a man
Shit judging you but in that was so worth putting in your video where you laughed at someone saying that they're sexist
That's almost like a froggy and slip for him. I think
Yeah, like yeah, he's a man. He is the villain
Brown table your video sucks
Like this is a fucking terrible that you should be ashamed quite frankly fucking terrible
Benjy this is terrible captain marvel inspiring to lots of young girls
War on twitter. I mean what what?
I guess he's saying that because captain marvel is inspiring to lots of young girls
It's worth the war on twitter
It's it's not you shouldn't criticize it on twitter. I don't
Sure, that's what I'm really not sure what his point was there
We'll rewind it but um mohammed ramen down the same brown table as a homosexual vision of apobent
Yeah, how do you describe him he's like apobent only gay
I feel bad the wolf isn't able to express his rage in in cold
But he said this is the first time I've seen a video from this guy and why he's absolutely retarded on single functioning brain cells
It's empty head. Yeah a little bit empty head would be a good way to describe this
He's coming off is really is really phony to me. Like this is just total bs
To me. I assume he just hasn't thought about this shit at all. He's like toeing a line here
We haven't thought about anything in his entire life
wandering through life reacting
Uh, there's some good credit he thought of like how to arrange batman and uh spider-man on his uh
He put he put a fort into that so, you know, this guy's a massive that's true, you know, that's perfect
He's got two heroes behind him who have like these very strong moral lines and he's talking about how how it's okay for carol
to just be an asshole
Well from I mean
Well, this is it they they think that she was morally justified because according to them a smile from a straight
Or a stranger asking you to smile is an act of aggression to the point that it justifies
Escalating the violence apparently
That's that asking to smile represents every man who's ever raped a woman
Jesus like if it was if it was a scene where he was like, you know
Trying to like ply with liquor to the point that she couldn't walk
And then you try raping it outside the back of the alley and then she kind of went oh wait
I have superpowers and ripped off his arm. I'd be like well, yeah, I mean like
It's it's like it's not uh, it's not how we traditionally deal with rapists in western civilization
But I can I can i'm all right with that but
No, he asked for a smile and it's like I don't even consider that a nice thing or pleasant thing
I get that, you know
Well, not that i'm a woman when I faced it, but I can get like if you were getting
heckled by men every day to for a smile or fucking whatever I get it, but it's still it does not justify
The fucking violence that she well that she exerted and threatened to use further on it's it's not the same. It doesn't know
Well, he said it was so well, yeah, well, yeah, well, yeah, and he fucking when he puts himself in her position
He's like, yeah, I blow his fucking head off
Yeah, I like that he added that too the idea that he like would commit to the same actions. You're like, wow
It's like wow worse actions
Not lifting up someone else
Yeah, he's morally justified because that's how fucked their worldview is that yeah
Yeah, well, I just would never like every day I walk around with the power to kill anybody that I please
But I don't because it's not the right thing to do. What do you mean? Right? It's just where'd you learn that from that's insane
You know, I love it. I purely purchased this I have purchased this power
Are you high no he's just a man
Shit judging you but in revengers. How is this captain marvel inspiring to lots of young girls?
War on twitter, I mean
Balances out we are arguing. Okay about a fictional film
In which no, no, it's a real film. Oh, I hate this argument so much. I hate this argument so much
I hate it. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it
Yes, it is fiction we all know that but we're playing
I'm still arguing about it. It doesn't bother me
Don't do that. Oh, I hate this shit
Can shoot lasers from her hands what's the next argument gonna be why is mj still black?
So
Also mj's black what is what is wrong with you
What's wrong? Why did you make this video? What is it?
Don't you think spider-man love black mj and mcu it is atrocious seriously
This is a person who's a commentary we should definitely value what the
I didn't even read. Hey captain marvel's not a real film. This isn't a real tweet. Don't worry about it
Why are you talking about it? I mean it's all
All we're arguing about is fiction here guys. Yeah, just fiction. It's just pixels on a screen man. Don't worry about it
Yeah
Women aren't real. I guess I guess we have to do it. We have to explain it. So
When a character commits to an action in fiction
We then judge it as if it was to take place in real life as to whether or not it was morally reprehensible or not
People online are saying it was absolutely justified
Other people are saying it's not we get to discuss morals and ethics and this fucking idiot is like, uh, it's not a real thing
that happened
He morally justifies it and then says oh but it's fiction so you know why you argued about it
Stop talking about captain marvel spider-man is coming out
If we go through uh, if we go through
People's channel his videos this last one was going back iron man three
end game end game
shazam
Those aren't real. Why is he talking about them? They're not even real. Why is he talking about iron man?
Yeah, why would anyone talk about? Not even real man's coming out
Not even real
That's a new meme i'm fucking
I i'm, i'm, i'm, i'm, i'm I'm, i'm, i'm, i'm, i'm, i'm, i'm, i'm, i'm, why do we care now?
Why are we talking about anything spider-man's coming?
Why are we doing it?
It's funny too because his most viewed video in the line in this year is him as a video where he's criticizing captain marvel
Wow
He's got survivor's guilt there
It's not a hypocrite
He got linked on some feminist subreddit that he was like, I was wrong.
I was wrong.
She was great.
I'm an ill feminist ally.
This is him.
But I was so glad you're waiting.
I reckon three and a half minutes and he's wanted to make me kill myself.
Like, why is MJ still black?
Wait, so before I go, I want to give you guys a quick rendition of what I think
some of the people who don't like the Captain Marvel.
Why don't you just ask them?
No, no, no, no, no, no.
Shush, no, no, stop doing that.
You got a straw, man. Come on.
That is not his fucking agenda.
He's not interested in that.
It's just so all you have to do is you just go to these people and say,
what would you have rather seen?
And you don't have to guess.
You even have to go to them there.
They're probably all saying it in the replies on Twitter.
No, all of that.
It's just this is misogynisms.
That's all that is misogyny.
People who don't like the Captain Marvel scene.
Wanted to see on the big screen.
So let's do it.
This will be accurate, this will be accurate.
He's upside down reading his book upside down.
Haha. Hey, baby.
But was it was a cow reading the map upside down or she?
No, because because these people are, I guess.
I don't know.
You might have been. I can't remember.
I'm not saying he's a stickler for detail.
No, because we read it.
It said she was reading it right side up.
Oh, yeah, we did read it, didn't we?
Yeah, yeah, we did read it.
Yeah, she knows English.
All right, so he's he's less funny than Captain Marvel.
I was about to say that wouldn't even make sense because she can read.
So like why would she have it up later or whatever?
You know, you know, right.
Oh, hi.
Can I use your motorcycle?
Oh, sure.
But only if I can give you it, say no, and find someone else.
Sure. Oh.
Oh, I'm sorry.
What is happening right now?
This is this was his assumption of what we wanted to see.
Can we can we can we not?
I can I can already envision in my head how I'm going to edit this.
I thought we got past she said, you know, I can already see it.
I just churning.
It's amazing.
Clapping. Yes, this is what we wanted.
That's exactly what I know.
I know is the current year before your past.
She cringy.
Yeah, this is this is reminding a channel awesome skits.
But hey, oh, oh, oh,
yeah, he's Oscar with why do you have a blanket on your wall?
Amen. He's he's gay.
Ababed. He has to have stuff like that.
He's going to be gay to decorate.
Oh, sure.
No problem.
Oh, I'm so happy to be sexually harassed in public.
And then wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Oh, he left his lips.
He's actually harassed to exploit myself to get what I want.
All right. So to be fair, to be fair, to be fair.
This not not fair to the argument, not fair to this bozo.
Let's say that remember in the Batwoman trailer
when new Bat, Batwoman person, when James Charles
is looking at the guy and she bites her lip.
That's the same thing as licking your lip.
Like when when someone generally when women bite their lip,
that means they're sexually attracted to you.
They want they want to fuck.
All right. That's one of those, you know, that's what a misogynist would say.
So that by the exact same token is sexual harassment.
I'm a woman that means that that woman.
So that means James Charles deserves everything that happens to her.
Yeah. Yeah.
That well, didn't you see the deleted scene?
She basically drop an anvil on here as a sort of like, hey, don't do that.
She got as far as I'm concerned.
That means she got off easy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Look, look, look, Rags, look, the thing was done.
He wasn't just doing that thing with his lips.
He was also undressing her with his eyes.
Yeah, she was literally losing her clothes until she electrocuted him.
Yeah, like he was looking at a scuba suit, but I wonder what she has under there.
I can't take it seriously.
Thank you guys so much for watching.
Do you think that was funny?
I don't know. You have a minute and a half an outro.
Well, let's see what let's see what he says.
This will be interesting. This is very fun to do.
Actually, it was very freeing, I think it's something cool
to not really have a script and just.
So yeah, this is what happens when you don't have a script.
Yeah, you make a fucking warning to the rest of you.
It really pays off the score for a bunch of tweets,
mischaracterize everything and act like a fucking retard.
But, you know, yeah, if you if you need a script, use a script.
Brown table clearly really needs a script.
Desperately a round table, even if you want to get an article
that's irrelevant and just monologue over it,
it'll still be better than what you just did.
You heard him. It was freeing.
It was free for him to show the world what an idiot he really is.
It feels great to be a moral busy buddy who just fucking
shits down on everyone else because they may or may not like to see it.
But, you know, Spider-Man's out next week, guys.
Stop fucking talking about Spider-Man.
Spider-Man's coming out.
Why are we talking about Spider-Man, guys?
You know, this is his newest video.
I'm curious if he took like a hit for this, because this is so fucking awful.
I'll check.
Yeah, let me take a look.
No, he didn't. Well, it doesn't look like he did.
The video certainly poorly rated, but looks like he's fine.
I'm surprised.
Yeah, I did.
I, I, I, if I saw this in one of my like favorite fucking film reviewers,
I'd be like, he would say like this, you need to.
What, what are you on?
What are you smoking?
If you like this format, tell me if you like the format.
Tell me, tell me, tell me, tell me in the comments.
Like the video, share the video if you can, please.
That'd be that'd be fantastic.
I have a discourse.
Why the fuck would anyone share this?
Yeah, why would I?
Why would I?
I mean, I would bring someone joy for making fun of it.
I guess we shared it technically.
4,000 people.
That's true.
We're sharing it to 4,000 people.
And it's, we shared it with, with, with Coventry.
I'm not going to specify what kind of Coventry, but it was Coventry.
Yeah, it was.
Comments were made.
Yes.
There were comments involved.
I'm trying to organize a second game night because we had one already.
Not many people joined.
Let me know if you want to.
Oh my God.
Guys, but he's tired.
He's tired of playing Francis on his own.
He left for dead, all right.
It's like, it's like Dusty begging for sandwich.
Oh my God.
It's like, why won't anyone come to my birthday party?
I invited everyone.
I came invitations to the whole class.
I can't believe literally everybody has a bar mitzvah to go to.
I invited all you sexist to my party.
Why the fuck did you show up?
Oh, he had like Captain Bob already got repeat at the party.
Come on, guys.
Oh, it feels bad, man.
Because we had one already.
Not many people joined.
Let me know if you want to have a game night.
It's going to be on Minecraft.
I don't have.
God's ever read it.
It's great.
I love the people on the Reddit thing.
So you see it all bad.
I love the people on the Reddit.
Yeah, that's I was surfing the web and then I encountered the Reddit.
Oh, the score.
These people know more about the Internet than me.
I'm 20 and I don't know anything about the Internet anymore.
I don't think you ever do.
If you're 20 and you don't know the Internet now, you don't know it.
Christ.
I mean, you grew up with it.
This should be fun.
I don't know if you guys care, but I'm going to push it down your throat.
So goddamn.
Oh, well, that's not.
Somebody hit this man, somebody electrocute this man.
I fucking wrote you gay alphabet.
You don't do that one.
No bueno.
Just what a gay alphabet would say.
Someone commented on the video says Brown table confirmed kills gay men.
It's Jeffrey Dahmer.
No fucking no damn hard.
I'll make you care, baby.
Thank you so much, patrons.
I have bought some very special for having season two.
Thanks to you.
Really appreciate it.
Thank you guys so, so much.
Last time I shouted out Jonathan Baldy.
This time I'll shout out Anita Sleep because I know she's been with me
for a very long time.
I need to sleep after watching this.
Oh, shit.
They'll do it.
Damn, oh, boy.
We're doing it.
I think it's safe to say we're done with our video then.
For Christ's sake, mate, get a grip.
That's all I've got to say about you.
Other than the other hours of things we've said.
I went to recent comments on his video and it's from Trumbek Walsik.
It says, stop talking about Captain Marvel's spider mask.
Oh, man, these people exist.
This is the thing.
I just I always have trouble relieving it always inside.
I'm going to savor every second of making this video.
You're going to is it going to be like a main channel on.
Oh, yeah, I'm looking for it would be great.
Because I want to try to do.
Yeah, that's great.
Six minutes.
It's really only like four and a half.
But please comment on the fact that no one came to his birthday party.
Oh, I had Spider-Man and Batman came to my birthday party.
Look at him at birthday parties, do Spider-Man's coming out.
Sitting alone at a table and he's got his Spider-Man toy and his Batman toy.
In fairness, those guys aren't really heroes.
Batman, I have a now I'm sad.
They're not very heroic compared to Captain Marvel in fairness.
Oh, I'm legitimately making myself sad.
Not going to lie, I feel sorry for his
his YouTube notifications.
He's probably like his phone is probably going off the hook.
Oh, well, I'm sure he gets a lot of comments regularly anyway.
But yes, like, yeah, no, no, no.
Yeah, he does have what?
This is a bit like two and a half K comments.
But generally you'll get in your social tab
on Gmail or whatever.
It'll have the video like new comment on video.
And then you open up the the email and then it shows all the new comments from there.
So, yeah, it's going to have some reading material.
You know, we're into the the the top comment that was pinned by him.
No, damn. Thanks for this video, man.
I was holding myself with all I could to not start the third war
in my Twitter with all those jerks.
That vid just calmed me down and saved a lot of my time.
Good to know that there's still sensei folks out there.
Awesome video said you're a weird.
Yeah, like when you sensei something, I need to see.
There's no way.
I've never heard fucking that way before.
Perceiving by the senses.
So, Chad, it's good to know there are still sensei folks out there.
I don't sense it.
It's very it's very sensei.
Does he say sensible or perceiving or perceived by the senses?
So it's sensei like if something is sensei, it's an adjective.
It means that you can perceive it with the senses.
So it's good to know.
It's good to know that he can perceive with his senses.
The video could be received by this comment.
I'm sorry. Keep saying sensei.
I keep thinking you're saying sensei that really shit Netflix show.
I don't know. Good to know that there's still sensei folks out there.
You know, people that I can see in here
as opposed to the people that I cannot see nor hear.
Whatever.
It makes it it it makes sense.
It is good that there are still sensei folks out there.
I've never heard that before.
I feel like I'm living under a rock.
Oh, yeah, I think he made the wrong word.
And just by a coincidence, it actually does make logical sense.
It's just dumb.
Well, the guy's avatar is also one of the evil Nazis from Star Wars.
So it makes sense that you would enjoy Captain Marvel.
Oh, damn it.
Everyone thinks sensei, sissy, senpai.
What's the word?
Yeah, I forgot to ask.
You're a big fan of Star Wars, right, such?
Oh, huge fan.
So that we have this thing running on Efap where we ask
in reference to essentially like the coming the coming horrors of episode nine,
considering all the damage they've done with seven and eight.
Who do you think is going to be the most inconsistent character
in episode nine, the one written the poorest slash?
He's a little bit right back. Hmm.
So who's going to be the worst written character in the next Star Wars?
Yeah, well, like I said, most inconsistent.
And you're not allowed to choose Kylo because it's obvious
he has no consistency whatsoever.
You can't choose Lando because they'll obviously destroy him.
And when we made this, we didn't like we complete fucking forgot he was in it.
And the third disqualified person is Palpatine because
apparently he's going to be in the film.
But yeah, you can't vote for him.
So, yeah, basically character with what we know
will become most inconsistent.
People say and ask Al, he's already given a vote for this.
Yeah, but I did it like ages ago.
I think I said poo.
Yeah, we all did it ages ago.
Be be rags of wool for the first votes.
And we they're locked in.
Now we're not allowed to change.
Yeah, I think I think the the most inconsistent will be
the people that like it.
You know, a lot of you is the chicken for them.
Yeah, even though you're more right than fucking any of our predictions.
I wouldn't be surprised if they randomly weaken Ray
to to try to give her like a fake arc in the last movie.
Or to make what to make it like suggest that she might get some peril.
Yeah, they'll make like, oh, all of a sudden she's not as super powerful anymore.
And she's like, like, if she doesn't like, you know,
if she makes a single mistake, she might actually be hit by something.
Yeah. And then we'll try to create this fake illusion of drama.
Like a fallen rock or something like that.
We're like nudging on the shoulder and she'd be like, oh, man, my shoulder shit.
Can't do my lightsaber tricks anymore that I learned somehow.
So I think it seems like Finn is just completely they've given up on Finn.
Like he's just this comedic nothing character that they just throw on the dirt,
you know, whenever they can, which is actually why he's I voted for Finn
because I feel like whatever they do with him in the third film
is just going to be completely incongruous for the first time second.
I mean, we can make a prediction on what is his last profession was in the next film.
Like, oh, was he the ex janitor, the ex the ex when they find
when they find the remains of the fucking first or second death star, whatever.
He's going to be like, it's OK, I worked on there.
How did you how?
Well, yeah, Finn's going to turn into that guy at work who fucking, you know,
he did everything that you ever did, but only better.
He's like, oh, just man, that's great.
Then was scrubbing the floor of the death star when he saw Palpatine slashing the ground.
He saved him. He was the one who rescued it.
Yeah, that one time you scrub the floors and Darth Vader and Palpatine
just walking by and like they just revealed like the plot to undo
everything they've ever done.
And he like he had all of it. And he was like, oh, my God.
Yeah, it's like an epic reveal.
They need to know the plan that they like.
He's like, I know someone who knows the plan.
Me.
OK, I here's my here's my real vote.
I figured it out. OK, the most inconsistent character in the next Star Wars
is going to be Captain Phasma is going to come back and still be alive some.
I mean, you can vote for her if you want.
I'm pretty sure that's on board.
She's coming back. I'm telling you nothing.
No one's really gone forever.
That's actually true.
I mean, we all thought the emperor was dead, but we were so wrong.
Yeah. Well, beautiful.
It's right back yet.
He's not. All right.
Well, I mean, I can set up the next person we're covering is fun enough
because we did the guy before who was calling everyone sexist
for not liking Captain Marvel.
And then we just covered this guy who's calling everyone sexist
for not liking Captain Marvel.
It's time we check out the opposite end of the spectrum.
OK, that you are not sexist.
Spectrum is correct.
What the fuck ever you do now?
Because we haven't we covered this video on Wolf's podcast
a long time ago.
Me rags and walls.
I think you can still go and find it, but we can cover it again
because it's a fucking goldmine.
Has everyone here seen Marvel's Avengers Infinity Wars?
The silence tells me, yes, all of you have good.
I have seen this before.
I mean, if I say no, are you going to crack me?
Or I'm pretty sure I watched it with you, you son of a bitch.
So we've got Mr.
No Bullshit is going to talk to us about all of the SJ
SJW moments in Avengers Infinity War.
And cool. Again, you know, like let's take this for realsies
and be like, let's see if he's making some fair points here.
It'll be great. Equal opportunity.
Because the comment section described him as the anti anti SJW.
Or he makes the sorry.
Yes, he does look bad.
Yeah, he's again opposite
into the spectrum is kind of the same thing, but here we go.
Chasig, no, please. No.
So what is he? Is he an ally or a Nazi?
Well, he's he's definitely a Nazi,
but he's just the reverse of the guys we were just watching.
Basically, I need to know whether I should hate it.
We're not going into this video.
You know what?
We'll find out by the wonderful audience. OK.
Hello and welcome back to no bullshit.
Today, we return to talking about the latest Marvel movie Avengers Infinity.
All right. That's enough, everybody.
Thank you for tuning us.
I was just covering no bullshit.
War. All right.
Did this come out after the flying game?
Yeah, but I won't really matter this solely about this movie.
I think it might be interesting to see how this is aged, actually.
Which not only shattered box office records in its opening weekend
just over a week ago, it also has gone on to make over a billion dollars
in just 12 days.
That's pretty crazy, guys.
And I say it's much deserved as well.
I saw the movie opening night and I was more than impressed.
It's got great action, good fun, laughs, a cool story.
And most importantly, one of the best villains of all.
I'm glad that my avatar.
Isn't an animal shitting.
Amen. It's no bullshit, OK?
I mean, I am too.
Rax, but I'm glad I don't have to look at that every time you're here.
All time Thanos, who not only is my my ass.
He got him.
He also proved to be a formidable match to the Avengers.
I won't be spoiling everything in the movie today, so don't worry.
But if you do want to hear a more complete review of the movie,
you should check out our Avengers Infinity War movie review live stream,
in which me and the fellas went over the movie.
Me and the fellas.
37, 57, 37 minutes.
That's weak.
We spent more time talking about the fucking guy whether he's gay or not.
I have to say, though, no bullshit is doing better than the previous guy by far.
We got 45 seconds in.
We don't really have a problem yet.
So we haven't even pointed out the sexist yet.
Well, yeah, he hasn't dropped a bomb yet, is he?
So he's doing great.
I don't know.
His icon is dropping the.
He dropped some bombs.
The night after seeing it.
Link to that below.
But for today, today, we're going over some of the few but noteworthy
bad parts of the movie, namely the SJW moments that pull you out of the story
a bit and make you go, huh, why are they doing that?
Marvel is owned by Disney after all.
So much like how they're left leaning SJW ideology
bled into the new Star Wars movies.
So too has their bull crap.
Really, though, it's nothing nearly as bad as The Force Awakens
or The SJW Fest that was The Last Jedi from back in December.
No, I will say, to be fair, most of these SJW moments are a bit nitpicky
for Infinity War, besides the first and worst offender.
Nothing really messes up the movie.
You have to make a video on it.
Just a few things I noted.
He kind of did.
He he does all right.
SJW moments in his series rags.
OK, fucking is like if it was me, I would be like, if they're really nitpicky,
I've been like, I'm not going to do it because it makes me seem really petty
about a lot of this little stuff.
I mean, if you've just admitted to the majority of your points,
the vast majority of big nitpicks is like, maybe.
Maybe don't, but OK.
Maybe just maybe in another video, I might bring it up really quick.
Just a little bit.
I was going to say, like, come on, sorry.
No, that was kind of I was just kind of trailing off into the ambiguity.
All right.
OK, I'm not a fan.
Fair enough.
No, well, yeah, if you included this in a like overall review or whatever,
then, yeah, maybe, but I'm just getting the whole this whole thing is nitpicky.
He's kind of like he's kind of like devalued himself.
It's good. Yeah, you shouldn't watch this.
Like, I might as well just do this off.
You're like, OK.
I mean, I mean, I mean, if you if we if we all click play now and agree
to let it play out, we are admitting that we're all nitpicky, nitpicky bastards.
So oh, we already knew that.
Yeah, I knew that. Yeah.
Oh, yeah, we're horrible.
We're pretty social justice warrior like and progressive ish.
So with all that said, with all that prefaced and with the spoiler warning here,
spoilers ahead. Watch out.
Well, with all that said, let's go ahead and jump right.
What did he say with all that said like three times?
All right.
The first character we can for sure tell has SJW influences is Shuri,
the Black Panther's sister and technology expert.
Shuri was set up as the smart, sarcastic, know it all scientist
in the previous Marvel movie, Black Panther, where she proceeds to mock
the American spy Everett as he comes into their lab injured.
Great. Another broken white boy for us to fix.
Fucking Black Panther do.
Yeah, I mean, that that means a little offhanded comment. Sure.
They do. This is part of my issues with Black Panthers, that she's like
a 16 year old that's like fucking beyond intelligent.
Like she's the head of the research development, scientific and medicine
department is like, how are they not senior people in charge here?
Shouldn't she be still be learning how science works?
And then before Infinity Wall came out,
me and Wolf obviously saw Black Panther.
I was like, we're going to get that scene in Infinity Wall
where she outsmarts one of our main characters because she's just so damn smart.
Is that an SJW moment or is that literally just the fact
that they were tied to her being established as essentially
the smartest character in the MCU by a previous movie?
Is her being in charge in SJW or her line of dialogue there?
I'm actually, whatever it is in Black Panther is irrelevant.
I'm talking about the fact that you have a continuity from Black Panther
and then Infinity Wall has to take it forward.
So if we are like, what does she do in this scene?
It's like she's the most intelligent character in the MCU.
You're like, OK.
Right. Right. So yeah.
So is it an SJW moment because a black girl or black woman,
she's a girl, she's 16.
Is a black girl is the most intelligent character?
Is that an SJW moment?
SJW? Well, let's let's hear his argument, I guess, instead.
Yeah, yeah, I want to see. Yeah, yeah.
This is going to be fun.
And Everett, of course, got that injury by jumping in front of Black
Panther's bodyguard, saving her life by literally taking a fucking bullet for her.
Everett nearly gave his life to save a Wakandan woman,
but sure, he just jokingly calls him another broken white boy,
a pretty disrespectful thing to say to a guy who took a bullet
for your brother's bodyguard.
I can agree with that. Yeah.
Yeah, that's fair enough.
I didn't even necessarily think about that.
It's like she he did do this to save a friend of yours, but OK.
Whatever, but I guess she was overconfident
because she knew she could save his life easily with the stupid fucking magic balls.
Yeah, definitely a breath.
Definitely makes me raise my brow.
Well, yeah, like enough to go
or be the death of the whole argument of, you know,
roles reversed on of a black person or another broken black boy.
You know, if they said, yeah, yeah, yeah, they did just be outraged.
But yeah, I don't know.
Look, it's another broken little Negro.
Yeah, you just have to escalate.
I'm hope you take him to the hospital.
Even the worst anti-white thing Sherry says in Black Panther.
Check out this reaction of her seeing Everett wake up from his recovery.
All right. Where am I?
Don't scare me like that.
Yeah, yeah, that. Yeah.
But I can't wait to see this little Black Panther, though.
Like, so I like whether or not it's really bad.
Like to me, all they did in Infinity War was take the fact that she's super intelligent
because they're tied to that in continuity.
They can't do anything about that right now.
Yeah, obviously, contextually, this doesn't make any sense
because we're condescending colonizers. Really?
This is not only pretty anti-white and racist.
It's also inaccurate.
Americans never really colonized Africa unless you count Liberia,
which was settled by American blacks.
Is Everett an American character?
Black Panther is he a British?
He's American.
That's right. I don't know.
Yeah. And it is bizarre
hearing the people of very strange to them as colonizers.
You're like, oh, you weren't colonized.
That doesn't make any sense.
Like, yes, but you guys have colonized things like
a lot of a lot of people, a lot of places have done that.
Just the rest of Africa, too.
So they don't have any moral high ground.
It's not like they're helping anyone.
Yeah, they conquered for like, what was it?
Four other tribes to make Wakanda.
No, that's that they like to forget about that.
Once they get past the opening fucking sequence,
we used our spears to politely convince them to.
Do you remember? It was like,
I feel bad saying this now, because like I told you,
I recently watched that episode while I was doing like morning gym stuff.
I love you, Jay, but Jay argued that
he said that they didn't conquer the other tribes.
They unified.
And it was like once the guy with the Black Panther juice was made.
So the idea is that we're all cavemen and I pull out a pistol and I say,
let's unify and you'll go, OK, you know, we unify. Yes.
Yes, we unify better percent.
Yes, we're going to unify.
Also, I'm the king.
And by unify, I mean, we all listen to me.
Those past Wakandan tribes, they smiled at the Black Panther
and thus he was justified and unified.
Oh, shit. By force.
Why are you talking about Black Panther?
Spider-Man's out in like fucking France or even the Dutch Germans.
They're the ones who did the majority of the colonizing in Africa, not Americans.
So with all that said, I just think Shuri is being a bit of an anti-white
and anti-male here in the Black Panther movie.
Yeah. And I think that if we reverse these roles,
that we get a bunch of complaints, but OK, that's how that works.
Yeah. OK, fair enough.
It looks like the same kind of SJW things happen with the character.
And still, we're three minutes in and he's only now talking about Infinity War.
It's like, all right, the war as well.
This brings us to not only the most SJW moment in Infinity War,
but also just the worst scene in the movie.
Granted, it's quick and pretty easy to look over,
but this scene between Shuri and Bruce Banner really rubbed me the wrong way.
Check this out.
Oh, the structure is polymorphic.
Right. We we do attach each.
You guys remember this, right?
Yeah. Yeah.
And it's it's annoying,
but it's not like this is the thing I had a feeling this was going to happen
because of the fact that they made her so fucking intelligent in Black Panther
to be consistent, which now they care about, you know, to be consistent.
She has to basically show up everyone else with how super fucking smart she is.
Jay just said, how is it anti-male?
That's a good point.
What does she say that was anti-male?
Well, the colonizers were a bunch of men and ever.
It's a man. So it just follows.
She said broken white boy.
I don't know if that matters, really.
Maybe non-sequential.
Why didn't you just reprogram the synopsis to work collectively?
Bitch, we were working with what we got.
I just yeah, like I just wanted Bruce to be like,
that's not a thing that we could do.
Shut the fuck up, literally wasn't possible because we didn't think of it.
I'm sure you did your best.
OK, now I could see what they're going for here.
Shuri is making this cute line and everyone's supposed to have a little laugh about it.
Oh, that's funny. Look how smart she is.
But in actuality, Bruce Banner and Vision are supposed to be pretty fucking smart, too.
Vision didn't make a vision. So yeah, it'll be Tony and not.
Yeah, vision, why don't you make yourself smarter because I didn't make myself.
And yeah, like so if you swap out Shuri for like a 50 year old fucking scientist from Wakanda,
I don't think I really have a problem with this.
I just be like, yeah, I guess in Wakanda, the ability to have access to this amazing equipment
allowed them to understand a lot more about science and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
The thing that made me hard to swallow, I was just like, how are you this young
and you are this much smarter than everyone else?
Like fucking hell. Well, well, she because adamantium.
If I bring him does that, I don't know.
Not to be to be fair, you do have child prodigies, of course.
But I think I'm not bothered that she's a child prodigy.
I'm just bothered more by how he's all just delivered and how or how lazy it is.
Because as we're talking about in this scene, it's just the whole why do you do this?
We didn't think of it.
Yeah, that didn't help. It didn't help the way to establish who is more intelligent.
It's done in the most dumb way possible, if that makes sense.
And there's like one of the top scientists
in the world renowned for a study of gamma rays, which, of course,
is what also turned him into the Hulk.
To steel man, his point that he specializes well in, I believe Tony says biometrics.
He says that that's the reason why he needs to make vision.
Like banner was the main one.
Tony was helping his banner knows specifically what like this goes on inside vision.
So it is kind of annoying.
Yeah, it's not just a fucking research scientist from worms or something stupid.
It's like a lot more to it than that.
Bio organics, sorry. OK.
Biometrics is stuff like eye scanners and stuff, aren't they?
I don't know. Envision the one laying down there.
He's like this futuristic half robot, half as guardian super genius who knows everything,
which, of course, makes him very smart, too.
And then we got this Shuri chick coming along and schooling them all and being disrespectful.
I know that could make sense in the story in a way, too, because Shuri established it
in Black Panther, as you pointed out at the beginning of your video.
Would you really describe how she delivered what she said is disrespectful?
And it's like a little bit, but not nothing egregious.
I mean, if yeah, it's not like a huge deal, you know, well, it's because he shows
the Black Panther clips that are like far more like, oh, OK.
But this is like, it's like if you guys brought me a chair that had three legs
and you like it keeps wobbling over, I'd be like, why didn't you just put four legs on it?
And you go, don't be disrespectful.
I'd be like, OK, like what I'm trying to say is that it appears that stupid to her.
But all she said was, why didn't you do this?
Aetronizing is what people are saying.
Yeah, I guess that's the right.
All right.
Yeah, I'd say so.
From Wakanda, which has more advanced technology, but even so,
this scene still turns me off completely to the character.
It turns me off to the movie a bit, too.
But more so, it really starts to make me hate Shuri.
Now, sure, this was a little bit annoyed, but like I said, it's almost like it should have.
Well, you didn't need to have it happen that way.
Like, I'll admit that you could have had it a different delivery and you could have
you didn't have to make it so the vision was made stupidly by them.
You could have had her outsmart them on something else.
I mean, ultimately, you didn't really need to have her outsmart them at all.
But yeah, we even even if Bruce had just said we couldn't do that,
it would have been like better.
Yeah, well, it's not so I got because then it's not like he's stupid.
It's just like, oh, we just lack the technology to do what you're saying.
Mm hmm. Well, yeah, I was going to ask the question.
Has been asked yet, but why do they need to establish who is more intelligent anyway?
I don't think they do need to.
I like she could have been like she could start talking science mumbo jumbo.
They're going to be like, oh, you understand us.
And, you know, then they talk more science mumbo jumbo.
And it's like, oh, cool.
You know your shit.
Well, they do for plot reasons.
We need to establish why it takes so long to get the jam out of his head.
And so she's saying basically that they've tangled up all of the wires
instead of making it so that they can just pluck it out.
Yeah, they didn't leave any documentation.
How do I fuck the mess like?
But like, yeah, again, you can still achieve that without how doing what they did, I think.
Yeah. But by the way, by the way, I was going to ask, does anyone know here or chat?
Well, chat will definitely know.
But who is actually the most intelligent character in the MCU?
Like Bobby Catmarbles.
He's the best at everything, everything.
The competitors will be I was hard to explain.
You say Godzilla Rags, but Reed Richards is one of the smartest ones.
He's a fantastic four dude.
Tony Stark's definitely up there.
I'm pretty sure Bruce Banner's up there.
She's up there.
And you mean like across the comics as well, do you or just the MCU?
Well, well, well.
Well, if I say like, you know, doing the Infinity War saga or whatever it's called in the comics,
I don't even know if that's going to if that's too broad.
There's a couple of serious answers like the Ancient One and Reed Richards.
And then you got Jar Jar Biggs, and then you got the Don.
Several people are saying the Don is true.
Well, yeah, he would have known not to fuck with Carol Danvers.
You want to know not to mess with that woman.
Apparently, Doctor Doom is very smart as well. Yeah.
He's a doctor.
He is a doctor.
He's a doctor.
Especially when you remember again that Shuri is talking to Banner,
one of the top nerds and top scientists in the Marvel universe.
And if Shuri is anywhere near as smart as they want you to believe she is,
it would be fair to say she knows who Banner is and is familiar with some.
That's actually a fair point.
She probably should know who he is.
It's like we're kind of spy on the whole world.
Or if anything, this adds to the idea that she's being patronizing.
But yes, by pretending to not know maybe she does seem like the person
who's so like detached from everything, that's not her work.
You know, it's possible.
Yeah, I think it's reasonable to assume either way.
Some of his scientific work.
So it's just very disrespectful to act like this to him here.
Let's take another similar meeting.
Sure. How does an SJW example remember when?
Yeah, so was it SJW?
Was it a social justice move to have?
I'm guessing the framing here is the young black girl is outsmarting.
The older white male is probably the framing.
Right, right.
It's not enough.
That's just I wouldn't.
I mean, I can't say I'd raise my brow, but that's about it.
It's not worth a video.
I probably target poor writing before I'd say anything I can agenda.
Is there? Yeah.
And that's apparently the change.
That's the kill shot, he said as well.
The rest of these are nitpicks.
Would you imagine, though, if the scene was reversed?
Yeah, that's the obvious argument is that what if it was a young black scientist
who had had a lot of experience and then he was outsmiled by a 60 year old
fucking cis white man?
Would it then be anti SJW?
I don't know. Yeah.
So we'll see.
Mines and Marvel as an example.
Remember when Stark meets me in the first not quite with one of the most classic
IQ measuring still better leagues better than the previous video, honestly.
Yeah, isn't shit the bed yet.
The last video was like a zero.
This is like a three so far.
It's like it's not it's not it's not worthless.
It's all time.
And while they may be a little agreeing with the majority of it, right, we're just so far.
So far. I remember that.
I remember this gets a bit tis me, though.
Oh, fuck, really competitive.
They still also have instant respect for one another.
They share their knowledge and they show off a bit.
But it's not too much bragging.
It's not a pompous way they do it.
Not like how sure he is to ban her here.
And no matter how much people say she knows her vibranium.
All right. OK, this background video that's playing is really weird.
It's like a guy with a little black figures
like going back and forth across the black at the back here.
When the smart editing move physician engineer or robotic expert,
quantum physicist or even an exotic dance prodigy.
She could be a cooking savant for all of care.
The bottom line is I find her character to be this classic.
I'm a genius because reasons, which ends up being shallow and a bit cringy.
Sure, sure. He isn't all bad either.
I do like her character as the annoying little sister of the king of Black Panther.
And she also plays a good rebellious daughter to the queen
because that was relatable to.
But when it comes to being this genius holier than now, mega bitch, I just cringe.
Holier than now, mega bitch.
I don't know if it's a little bit of a joke or belong.
Well, much is going to say that she was sexually harassment within it.
Well, she did smile at him.
Being smarter than a woman is sexually.
Yeah, yeah, she she thought into the intelligence.
She smiled to the bastards.
During the scientific Mary Sue kind of character, who just knows everything,
just because because the script wants her to because she's young and black and female,
I guess. And it also.
Oh, there you go. And that's that's revealed why you think success.
I guess I mean, but everyone on the black and female.
Yeah, those are inconsequential to age is what I find an issue with.
And that's not inherently actually W at all.
Everyone will come as black.
It's an Africa.
And they are more advanced than everyone else in the world.
That's that's their law.
Would it be more insulting if she was white in the context of being in Wakanda?
Like, he's the white woman who comes in and like.
Pissed if she was white, honestly.
Yeah, I think so, too.
It makes sense in the universe that he's black.
I don't I don't understand.
And she is part of the royal family, right?
Well, yes, she's the sister. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So it makes sense that she would get the best education and the best resources
and the best tutors and the best teachers and all the supplies that she could ever
need. But everyone in Wakanda's equals.
I don't guess the exact same thing.
Oh, yeah, right.
Is a communist utopia, you fucking fuck.
I forgot all of the, you know, monarchy going on.
I'm assuming his argument is going to be that, you know, would Marvel make anyone
the smartest character if they weren't, you know, a woman or weren't black?
Just like, you know, would they make the most powerful hero anything but a woman?
Well, up until just a moment ago, it was Thor.
Yeah, right.
I mean, I was going to say I hate to talk about Captain Marvel
because Spider-Man is almost out, but that is the reason.
Yeah, I just like I if you're a member as well in Black Panther,
don't blame anyone here if they have no fucking clue.
The when when T'Challa is first challenged among the criticisms of him from the first
challenger, he says a little girl is in charge of like science department and she
scarfs a tradition, the implication being that the king controls who's the science
leader person, which again, I still stand by.
It's absolutely dumb that it would be here, but she's there because of the fact that
her her brother was able to essentially push it to that position.
But, you know, nepotism.
Yeah. So this is what I mean.
This feels a bit forced, but I mean, it's funny we've come to that conclusion on this
first point because the rest of these like I remember some funny shit from this.
Ray from the new Star Wars movies in a lot of ways, especially like this scene from
The Force Awakens.
Be pieces of us in three different systems.
Yeah, she she was awful.
She is awful.
What'd you do?
I bypassed the no, you didn't turn out of the wall.
You tore a fucking component of the fucking wall.
That cost me 50 credits.
Scenes have new female main character showing up our old favorite white male
characters for absolutely no reason.
And that's just rubbish to me.
And back to sure.
Rubbish is very soon.
Very an infinity war.
It's worth noting here that the little idea she comes up with in the scene, probably
the worst scene in the movie.
Well, her plan doesn't even work out in the end.
And normally that could be forgivable since everything in the universe is working
against her.
But after sure, it was so smug and disrespectful, pretending to be some pretty
sure her plan was working.
She's needed more time.
Yeah.
And she says several times it's going to take a long time.
So I think up until the point where they had to cancel it, she was right.
Yeah.
Like the only criticism I have of the movie is when they're like, how long do you
need? She's like, as long as you could give me or whatever.
It's like, no, seriously, how long do you need?
So we know this is possible.
And she's like, oh, three years.
You're like, oh, well, this is not fucking possible.
How much smarter and better than everyone?
Well, failing after acting like that just makes her look even worse.
And back to the scene as well, because it was her fault, though.
He just wants to take a shot at it for being smug, I guess.
Well, it is which we saw here that he's so concerned with, like, it was like a small
snarky comment, like he's a really.
He said it was the worst scene in the movie.
It's like, wow, like five seconds long.
And I know he said that.
This is the killing blow.
Yeah.
And better than everyone, well, failing after acting like that just makes her look even worse.
And back to the original clip of that scene, which we saw here was played during an
interview with the actress on the
show dressing up like Shuri looking up to her when, in my opinion,
I think that one's dressed as Black Panther, not Shuri.
Yeah, a lot of the bars.
Wait, which one of these are dressed as Shuri?
Just the center one.
That's it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
They're the worst to wear in the armor, like one way or another.
All right.
Well, maybe, maybe the girl in the background, she's wearing the ceremonial thing.
Is that, is that what it looks like?
Well, uh, Forest Whitaker wears, but I don't know why you'd want to cosplay Forest
Whitaker because they want to save the dream.
Someone to look up to, look at all these girls on the show dressing up like Shuri.
So when Chad said it's Buff Shuri.
I use science to amplify my muscles.
You like me now, brother.
And now I'm the king of Wakanda.
Step aside, brother.
Could the women eat the fucking flower shit that they eat?
Dude, don't stop.
Can they just grind it up and snort it and become, you know, they do have to be a man.
Save the dog.
That is the blue goo.
Save the dog.
In my opinion, she's a bit of a bitch who should not be praised like this.
The next and second worst SJW part of Infinity War has to do with Bruce Banner,
AKA the Hulk, who, besides a quick fight with Thanos at the beginning.
Well, besides that, we hardly even see the Hulk in this movie.
After he loses to Thanos, the Hulk refuses to come out for Banner,
who is then stuck in his human form for almost the whole movie.
And at face value, that might not seem like such a bad thing.
It sounds like they're trying to mix things up a bit,
but when you combine this with the disrespect from Shuri,
well, it's starting to seem like the Hulk is a victim of the SJW agenda here.
Oh, OK, OK.
Help us, you know, bullshit.
I think they just dropped the fucking ball.
It came to writing characters like Thor and the fucking Hulk.
Yeah, the Hulk or Bruce.
I think it's like we were talking on the Geeks and Gamers thing is like,
if you're going to say that something is an SJW thing, then it can't just be bad.
It has to be bad for certain reasons.
Yeah. And you get bonus points if you actually get a quote from the makers
where they said they did X, Y and Z specifically, like JJ Abrams being like,
I wish all of Star Wars was Asian people.
It's like, OK.
OK, I can't imagine Disney exec or a Marvel exec, you know,
slipping a piece of paper and it says get rid of Hulk.
You know, I don't don't see it happening.
I just I feel like they may have had different plans for Hulk
and they just kind of flubbed him in the second movie.
I was actually interested to see whether we're going to take him after Infinity War.
Well, this is it apart from obviously, well, the original Incredible Hulk.
I say the original, you know, in the MCU, you know, it's a shit film.
And Edward Norton cracked out and they had to get Mark Ruffalo.
And I don't know if I like put a stint in whether or not he got more
about another individual film on his own or whatever.
But after what, Infinity War?
No, not Infinity War, Age of Ultron.
You don't see him again until Ragnarok, do we?
And then like, that's like a really good moment.
I think anyway. And then the
yeah, the next time is Infinity War.
Yeah, I just think they kind of dropped the ball.
They they just.
Well, they kind of nerfed him along with Thor in the end game
because they didn't want to deal with all the characters
and what they could do to fuck up the ball.
Well, the interact with the story, I guess, you know, two high points,
at least how people feel about it is Avengers and Ragnarok.
And in both films, he's essentially just Hulk smash.
Yeah. And yeah.
And in Endgame and Infinity War, he's just comic relief, honestly.
Like, all right, in Endgame, he's got a much more active role
with the time machine and all that, isn't he?
But he's not well, he's not being Hulk there, even though he is half Hulk.
Well, the problem with character at that point,
we didn't get to see the transition.
We didn't get to see the struggle.
He just skips to it and we're like, OK, yeah, I solved it.
It's all done. It's finished.
And then he dabs the SJW influences.
Yeah, I just think it's just poor writing with not know what to do with him.
This is the thing. He said it.
We've just discussed on how we can't see it at all.
So let's see what his argument is.
I miss with disrespect. I'm sure he will.
It's starting to seem like the Hulk is a victim of the SJW agenda here.
So he's literally bridging a crap scene with Shuri into.
Yes, I don't see how that is remotely relevant.
That's a huge jump.
Think about it. The Hulk is the biggest and strongest and,
dare I say, most manly Avenger.
Do you really think it's a coincidence?
Most manly Avenger. OK.
Well, because he's got the biggest dick.
All right. So allegedly we don't know.
Shuri might have the biggest.
I bet you know, Captain Marvel's got the biggest dick obviously.
Oh, it's it's lagging for me.
Yeah. Yeah, I think it was kind of.
Oh, God, that's what they're looking into.
I think it was like, oh, yeah.
You have a Hulk erection dysfunction before you.
I didn't get to see any of it because it fucking lagged out.
Let me play it again. Oh, God. Sorry.
It's lagging again. Hang on.
Fucking watch together, crapping out on me.
Is it fine for everyone else or because?
I'm on 735 735.
Yeah, I'm pause on that. Nothing.
I'm stuck on. Think about it.
The Hulk is the biggest on 722 right now.
Is anyone else now still 38 now in someone else?
Drag it to 720 and then play it just so that that's I'm doing shit.
I'll do it. I will take the helm.
This issue. Excellent.
I will take the wheel and gauge number one.
There we go. Zoomed out now.
Well, you know, is that 720 now? Yeah, 720 blaze it.
Um.
Nope, still lagging for me. Oh.
This is being the big gaze.
I think you should refresh.
Yeah, I'll just try and rejoin the watch together, because this is clearly up.
God, when are you going to start inviting everyone over to your house?
No one's going to come, dude. Why would I bother?
I might come.
Oh, oh, here.
You and Brown Table can get together and you can go each other's birthday.
He's not invited.
So where were we invited?
What time frame? 720 to be safe.
Call. Hey.
Victim of the SJW agenda here.
Think about it. The Hulk is the biggest and strongest and,
dare I say, most manly Avenger.
Do you really think it's a coincidence that he all of a sudden can't Hulk out here, too?
He's basically got a rectile dysfunction or Hulk rectile.
Right on that way.
That's a interesting read.
Hulk rectile dysfunction.
Hmm.
Well, as I was saying, yeah, I think it's just looking a bit in too much of it,
because he's linking that to.
I mean, I mean, that's what that's the joke.
Yes. But I don't think that's making the joke once.
What does he say?
I don't think that's a slight at manhood or men in general
or a way to diminish the Hulk via poor writing.
I thought it was at the beginning when they were in New York,
they're like a performance anxiety or something.
Yeah, it's like, I'll give you a second.
Yeah, we get it. It's a joke, but it's not.
I don't think it's Disney going get rid of him.
Well, that that's perfectly lines with something Tony would say, too.
Yeah, this is the thing.
I think that Tony is taking the reality of the situation,
which is X and making a sexual joke out of it.
As you're embarrassing me in front of the lizards.
My Hulk would never have a rectile dysfunction.
My Hulk in yellow.
I mean, I don't know, man, he's getting up there.
The Hulk's never been represented represented in any of the movies
as like, oh, he's the symbol of manliness.
Yeah, just like a big green guy.
He's bad. Well, that just proves that they're and if anything, you know,
he's like the worst of man in terms of like your aggression,
like, you know, he's aggression incarnate toxic masculinity.
I mean, yeah, he can bench a few, but he doesn't mean he's a fucking.
Well, he doesn't mean he represents a great man or anything.
I mean, you know, Bruce Banner is a good human being, but.
Also, am I still alive?
I think so, because you are.
I'm no longer signed into YouTube, but I can't sign back in for some reason.
I had that problem yesterday.
Yeah, I got signed out of YouTube as well.
And the chat on screen is frozen as well, so they can't see it anymore.
We lost like a thousand people. Oh.
Um, you all show live for me, but.
Yeah, you yeah, I had this issue a couple of days ago.
I can't sign into YouTube.
I mean, I could still hear you on the actual video. Hmm.
The video is still going.
It's showing my Gmail, but still here.
Yeah, I guess the the YouTube stuff just kind of pooped.
Yeah, YouTube might be having something tismy happen right now.
I don't know. Like I said, a few days ago, I had this issue
where I could sign in and it and then eventually it fixed
and I could sign in like normal.
I think we should just continue because there's nothing else we could do.
So we'll just say the guys on the Discord are saying they can hear us.
All right. That's good enough.
Chat's frozen, unfortunately.
There's some kind of but you guys don't have any sign in issues right now, do you?
I can't sign into YouTube. Oh, there you go.
Mine's fine.
I can't sign into YouTube, which means I'm I'm signed in and still signed in.
Did you refresh? Yeah. Yeah, yeah.
Well, it must be fucking nice.
Well, I'll just we'll leave it.
And yeah, I'm getting those PM's now. Great.
My fucking Discord is piling up and PM's like, no, no.
Yeah, as long as they can hear us and as long as we can keep responding to shit,
then it'll be fine.
Yeah, I'll try and I'll sign back in as soon as I can to get chat moving.
I say a few people, other people have been saying they signed out as well.
Yeah, YouTube's had got something going on.
Yeah, a couple of people have been saying they can't comment anymore.
Man, that's weird, twice in one week.
That's really odd.
YouTube used to be like a very stable kind of place.
And at least there was a signing in and stuff.
So I have a six different PM's saying chat is broken.
They can't use it.
So everyone who's listening to this, don't click off it and you'll be able to continue.
No, don't do it very loudly.
Oh, no, no more super chats.
But just it's fine.
We'll we'll just carry on function, I guess.
So to me, it really seems like the SJWs are trying to neuter the most manly character.
Yeah, that's a huge stretch wouldn't go.
Yeah, I wouldn't go that way.
Anyways, what do you say in the SJWs, who in particular, the directors,
the writers, the producers, Disney, Disney, well, fuck that.
I won't fuck in.
Yeah, this is one of those stretches where I'm like, man, don't
don't make don't say this stuff.
Don't make these arguments because they're just completely.
They're just random wild guesses.
You're extrapolating to an agree that's unreasonable.
It makes the position that you have look bad and weak.
Oh, yeah, it's just it's just a fucking crazy conspiracy.
First, who's doing this?
Don't go.
If ever the Hulk can no longer hold out, it had to be an SJW thing.
So why?
I think there's enough.
There's enough.
There's enough stuff going on where you don't have to
reach this far to find it.
You shouldn't have to do this.
And this low key attack on men is also a two pronged approach,
because not only does the movie neuter the Hulk, the manliest character,
they also buff all the girl characters and make them overly smart.
I find it funny that he just establishes that it's the badly character like, OK.
I mean, would you even say that the Hulk is
the manliest character?
What is the man about Thor?
I would say probably Thor is the manliest.
What is it?
What are the attributes you're thinking about when you when you say that?
Yeah, I guess I think from a since we're talking about the Hulk,
I assume it's more of a superficial, muscular, big, you know,
virile kind of who can bench more.
I mean, I mean, when he says that Hulk is the most manly character,
I assume that's what he's going for.
Yeah, he said he's definitely going for that.
I'm saying, like, what would you define as the bad to me?
I'm just like, what a weird.
I don't even know.
I'd probably say, I'd say Captain America.
They just said Thor is the most manly.
This is what I mean.
Like, I don't even know who I'd choose.
I just feel like they're all there.
I don't know.
I mean, they're all.
Yeah, it's it's it's.
It's who embodies the most.
Let's hear how the women are buffed instead, then.
All right.
Maybe I'll be easier the way we go.
A little more reasoned in the say girl power a couple of times.
I felt like chanting it out in there in the theater.
We already saw how overpowered they made Shuri in the science department.
But there's also she's.
Yeah, that's not overpowered.
She was overpowered thanks to a different fucking continuity.
It's like, it's not my fault.
So a pretty noteworthy scene where some of the other girl Avengers
get these kinds of moments to their Avengers.
I'm curious how if he has a problem with Scarlet Witch being super powerful,
it's like you shouldn't.
She's it's all explained.
She's powered by the fucking.
She is the glassiest of the glass cannons.
Yeah.
Some of the other girl Avengers get these kinds of moments, too,
for no good reason.
The Washington Post even wrote an article about the girl power scene called
this Avengers Infinity War fight scene is a step forward for Marvel's female character.
All right.
The only one of the problem is if you use this article as evidence is like,
I thought this is the kind of article you typically disagree with.
Yeah.
And you could I could have just pulled an article from some other place that says
the lack of female power moments in the film made it much stronger.
And it's like, OK, who's right?
Like, give us an argument instead of just citing a fucking article.
Avengers Infinity War fight scene is a step forward for Marvel's female characters.
Check this part out.
As the Avengers fight Thanos and his alien army in Wakanda,
his child, Proxima Midnight, descends upon an isolated wand to Maximal.
Proxima, filling her villainous remarks,
points out that Wanda is all by herself and we prepare ourselves for the worst
until Natasha dramatically announces she's not alone.
Natasha and Oki help their fellow Oki.
It's a coy.
But Oki is close.
Oki, let's just call her OK.
Make sure to make the white power sign when you say OK.
Absolutely.
And Wanda eventually uses her magic to stop Proxima
from killing Natasha by.
So he's referencing that.
I don't know if you remember the part, but it's like it's the girl
alien versus the three women on the battlefield.
Yeah. And so I guess he's making the argument like, oh, fucking such a.
They were all near each other on the battlefield.
You wouldn't say this when five guys end up fighting with each other, would you?
Of course not.
I thought it was fine.
I thought it was fine. The one in endgame was forced as fuck.
Yes. Oh, yeah. Yes.
Fucking love that Mantis is in there. So funny.
I'm helping.
I will make them go to sleep.
Doesn't even do that.
She just disappears as soon as the fight starts because they know she's.
Oh, yeah, that's right. Fuck. She has nothing.
It's downright dangerous for it to be able to get into one of the giant takes
rolling around teamwork makes the dream work, as they say, or as I would say,
girl power and wealth.
It looks like Marvel's pandering to women here worked, especially
with these Washington Post writers, because by the looks of they also panda to men then.
Yeah, is it is it true because the Washington I mean, which side are you taking?
I you're kind of you're kind of using both here, but which one's correct?
Is it SJW because they said it is which I would disagree with
and which normally you would disagree with?
Or is it because you're trying to make a point
and you found something that helps the point you decided you're going to make?
This article, they're eating this shit up.
I will say this was a minor SJW moment.
All things considered, one which really didn't anger me or mess up the movie or anything.
It just it was something I noticed and I knew what they were trying to do.
Next article goes on to make a picture of like a little like pointy figure.
The cinema. I can see what you try to fucking do.
You're going to get one. Oh, how can I put this in my video?
I see through you.
Can I make lies for 10 minutes long?
That's actually that's probably why this does feel a little bit padded, doesn't it?
Like a lot of these points just a little bit.
Yes, of course.
Hate on men, aside from it determining Proxima's fate,
the brief scene is noteworthy for its complete lack of men.
And more is a big old testosterone fest.
And many of the touted crossovers involve two or more male characters,
Thor and Peter Quill, Quill Stark and Peter Parker and Stephen Strange.
The humor often relies on the men.
Too much of this movie features crossover characters with the majority of the character.
So is this article.
So is it right or wrong?
I don't know. And I don't know that if we're going to have to be consistent on this,
like if it's bad that they put the women together, is it bad that they put the men together?
I don't know.
Can one of you call him and ask?
They even downright combine it sometimes.
Sometimes you see men and women fighting together.
It's so fucked up.
Mad lads.
What's really funny is what I think about this is that he's also doing this video
between Infinity War and Endgame, and Endgame has that fucking moment at the end.
Yeah, I'm assuming he would have made a video for Endgame as well.
And that would be act, he wasn't even frozen at the moment, he's like, oh my God, they did it.
Yeah, I don't know.
I don't know anybody that would disagree with that being like a fucking social justice moment.
It's like, look at the shit as hell, but yeah.
Yeah.
Keening to appear dominant, aiming to impress women like Gamora or Take Charge of Plants,
that this particular fight scene takes place in Wakanda's fitting,
given the praise Black Panther received for its depiction of women.
We'll get more to that later.
The Dora Milaje are fierce warriors, and their general, Oki, I can't say it.
Ah, yeah, yeah, she can't really do it once and say it, but all right.
They hear a name right, my bad.
Puts her duty to protect her country and King T'Challa first.
You see, even these writers are agreeing with me in some ways.
Oh, okay.
I thought your whole thing was that they agreed with you, but...
Even the people, that's interesting framing.
I'm confused as to this, the dynamic this article shares with his video exactly.
Yeah, why have the article at all, actually?
What's the real point that's trying to be presented with the article?
Like, I could find an article for any position.
I get more and more pro women, and at face value, that's really okay.
I don't mind it personally, but I do get annoyed when the best way they can come up with...
Okay, I don't know if you could say that I didn't mind it personally, but it annoyed me.
It sounds like it annoyed him personally, but it didn't annoy him personally.
Yeah, I mean, it sounds like, I mean, it sounds like you're stretching to make a video out.
Yeah, clearly he started with the strongest point that he has, which wasn't particularly great,
and now it's... I mean, this is point two, when either at the end of the video...
Oh wait, this is point three, sorry, it's the whole second point.
That's just petty and wrong to me, and it really comes from a place of weakness if you think about
it. Women should be able to stand up on their own, instead of relying on bashy men to try and
boost themselves up. Speaking of boosting women up and making them overpowered, it looks like a
new female hero is set to join the Avengers pretty soon. Not only is the Captain Marvel movie
scheduled for release early next year, but also, there's a quick credit scene we see Nick Fury
reaching for a device to call for help. Wait, what's the argument gonna be here? I'm excited.
Drops it, we see it's an older pager from the 90s, which has the logo for Captain Marvel on it.
She's not only set up to be the first female lead in a Marvel movie, but it looks like they're making
her into this rather strong and powerful superhero too. Quite possibly more powerful and
stronger than all the Avengers. She is being called in to save them after this Infinity War
drama, after all. And this goes along with this new, girl-powered trend in Marvel movies, which
I'm not necessarily completely opposed to. Yeah, but we didn't know it at the time we had suspected.
And it didn't matter if she's a girl and all. If she was a guy, it would have been bad.
Yeah, the problem isn't that it's a woman doing it. The fact is that this character exists, period.
Yeah, it's just, look, I don't like Captain Marvel because the character's like fucking Superman,
just OP and just fucking boring. It's not because, oh, it's a woman. I mean, Brie Larson being, you
know, kind of annoying or whatever. It doesn't help her credibility outside of the film, but
she don't sound, I don't like the character at all in the film.
The men sure have had their share of the spotlight over the years, but this does make me worry a
little bit. Marvel movies are turning more and more towards the women, and I just hope they don't
get ruined by their SJW tendencies. You already declared they did. I mean, if this is the stage,
if this is how we're going to kind of quantify that, then man, I don't think they have a chance
either way. I've heard he liked Endgame, by the way, which is interesting. I heard he liked
Endgame. You'd think that after Captain Marvel and Endgame's SJW moment, he would have been
brawling at the mouth. Dead.
I've gone downhill in recent years. And in case you think I'm crazy here,
let's go over all the girl power stuff in Marvel lately in the movies.
Oh, so this is an infinity warrior this year,
which had a suspicious amount of female characters.
I love it. I love it. Like, whoa, what is mom, his sister?
Oh, god, you have a big family. Come on, man.
Also, I can't I can't help but point out those little ring thingies.
It's retarded weapons. I've ever seen.
They light up so they like have electrical shit. I fucking know.
Well, that's been retired. I'm really surprised that he's not like busted out the fucking
MS paint circles around everything. Go look all these women visit. This is by design.
I mean, yeah, we're looking at the bodyguard, which is, you know, the king's guard for some
reason in Black Panther are all women. That's something that you can make a point about.
You'd be like, that's surprising, considering they don't get any benefits.
They just have the tools. If they all had the flower power, I could maybe see that making sense.
Then you got his mom. Like, why would why is that shocking?
It's no, no, no, smaller. It's kind of suspicious that his mom is.
Then you go, after all, after all, all heroes have to have their parents be dead.
Both of my father's died before I got to know.
Yeah, then you got the sides, advisor, girls, like, all right.
Girlfriend, girl, who also I think she goes on like missions or whatever.
Are you saying that Black Panther is straight?
No, I would never, but this is a problem.
That's a smexism.
That's, let me explain to you why it's an SJW.
The Conden King, his sister, his bodyguard, his mother, and his girlfriend.
Girls were all over in that movie and it didn't ruin the movie or anything.
Black Panther was still amazing, but that's the most egregious comment he says.
Black Panthers are still amazing.
All of his grievances, they originate from Black Panther, but it was amazing anyway.
He's just, yeah, he's just the friendly
Deuterito pointing out the problems with the films in SJW.
I can't tell his position to half his shit. He just keeps me hanging back and forth.
Was noticeable how many girls were in there.
Next, we got Infinity War here, which I already went over.
Oh, better woman.
Shuri being the bitchy OP scientist and that all-girl fight scene we mentioned.
And there's also Wanda, the Scarlet Witch, who was in that fight scene,
who's been moving up in the Avengers and seems to be coming one of the more powerful ones.
She was always like, this, this really, this really sounds like he just doesn't want to have
chicks around. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's like, yeah.
And honestly, fucking Wanda means a lot coming from me.
Do you remember when she, in Age of Ultron, she detonates and basically destroys like fucking
15 robots that are all around it? They established that she's like that in Age of Ultron. Yeah.
They already, we knew that from then.
She's powered by one of the Infinity Stones. She's no really different to Captain Marvel in,
in Power Source, which is why you could argue that's why it makes sense that they're so powerful.
Thing is with Captain Marvel is that bullets don't do anything to her and she can survive
in the vacuum of space, the speed of light while Scarlet Witch can get punched and she can get
knocked out. Yes. Which one's more interesting? Right. The, the one who isn't Captain Marvel.
We did it.
Add in Silverwall, like the drama focuses around her, not about her. Is it, you know, like with,
well, when Vision tries to subdue her or whatever, and then she just drops him through the floor.
And yeah, my only issue with Scarlet Witch is we don't see more of it. She's awesome.
I, I, I would love to get like a Scarlet Witch movie.
I'm surprised you see what she can do. I was surprised he didn't start with Black Widow.
I was surprised I didn't come up first. I'm just buying a thumbnail for this video.
That's the interesting thing. Oh, this is it. Well, by his narrative,
the whole, the whole undoing or unraveling of Marvel is the, as the SJW insertment into it.
But Black Widow was cool. I guess. She flew under his radar, I suppose.
She knew her place. She wasn't that time. She knew her place.
Well, it doesn't, well, funny you say that. I mean, she is like, like, by, well, easily,
easily pointed out. She's like the, yeah, she's, yeah, she's just a human who,
apart from a few kung fu moves with her, like, thighs, you know, she's not,
she doesn't do anything remarkable. Wow.
Racist. No, it's just because she's the wasp.
And it also sees Ant-Man being joined by his female crime fighting partner. Is that a coincidence?
They fucking had that in the first movie. They established that the only reason there
isn't a wasp is because her dad doesn't want it to get in trouble.
But then they move on from that. That's part of the movie. Like, the wasp always existed.
The wasp is the reason why that they stopped that missile in the first film. Like, I,
you can't just, I think when the admin of the wasp was a good example of you can have a kick-ass
female character and you could also have a cool hero too. You don't have to drag him down.
Yeah, they work just fine together. Yeah, I think they make a good duo.
But like, this, videos like this are part of the reason there's that narrative being spun
that all anti-SJWs hate women. They don't want to see women. It's like,
this, it's coming from me. This video really gives that vibe.
Yeah, I'm gonna make a promise with you and me.
It's crying wolf.
God fucking rags next. You'll be making a video about how a
spoiler to people is sexual harassment.
My name is Rags and I was wrong about it.
You use terrible, awful arguments for things. Like, man, just don't make terrible arguments.
Yeah, and then flicking through every female to actually be in any of those films.
It's just like, yep, that's a problem.
Who else is a woman? Get them to me now.
I see a pair of breasts. I'm displeased.
Think so. And then, of course, lastly, like I said before, Captain Marvel is getting
her own movie next year, which will then be followed by another Avengers movie that will
also feature Captain Marvel, who will most likely be this super strong Wonder Woman-like character
coming in to save the day. And with all that in mind, it's really hard to deny Marvel is
swinging towards the women in this coming year or so. Whether or not-
By having one standalone female character, like, even I'm like, what do you mean, dude?
Come on. Like, the idea that she saves everybody-
Yeah, I'm not on the side of like, oh, it's about time a female film came out kind of thing.
You know, the same with Black Panther. It's like, oh, it's about time a black one came out or
something. But it's not- I'm not against the eye of her. It's not like, oh my god,
how dare they- how dare they shake up the narrative. Fuck.
That's gonna go completely into SJW territory and regressive bullshit. We'll still have to
wait and see, but again, it does make me worry. And well, those are the three big
SJW things I noticed in Infinity War. Disrespectful Shuri, the impotent Hulk,
and all the girl power stuff. Besides that, I may have had a-
Can you believe that established characters return consistently in later films?
It's crazy. A few other nitpicks, but they're all just for fun and nothing to really write
home about. Like that scene where Spider-Man references the movie Aliens, which of course
is a female-led- Oh my god. What the fuck, dude?
That never entered my mind. Oh my god. I was right.
Honestly, I thought, I thought, I thought after the, like, he included his last point,
we've, you know, probably be done with like Patreon and, you know, other, you know, self-sucking
things, but he did it. I still got three more minutes to make this video worse. Fucking hell.
God damn it. Yeah.
He also references Footloose. I mean-
What, man? Yeah, but Kenny Bacon's a female-led person.
Bacon? Where do you do your bacon? In the kitchen where females are supposed to be?
It all makes sense.
Gonna let it play again. They have had a few other nitpicks, but they're all just for fun and
nothing to really write home about. Like that scene where Spider-Man references the movie
Aliens, which of course is a female-led 80s movie, made by none other than the former Canadian
director himself, James Cameron, who ironically enough is itching about this.
Is he seriously like, oh, they reference the film with a woman in it.
We're gonna get, someone's gonna make the meme of the dude with all the strings on the board,
and it's gonna have his face on it. I'm sorry. Everything comes back to this.
You fucking idiot. You fucking hack. God. It is not, and it's not iconic because of a woman,
is a lead character in it. It's not. Because the lead character is amazing.
Well, the film is amazing. That's why it's iconic. And Spider-Man brings it up, well,
references it, because it's an old film for somebody who's 14 in 2016 or 18 or whatever,
you know? Yeah, it's a reference to Civil War where he brought up Star Wars before. He references
pop culture movies. He's like, okay. Oh, that has a female in it too. What other possible movie
could Spider-Man reference to alert him that he wants him to blow a hole into the ship to suck
him out in the space? I mean, he didn't, he didn't just literally just go, oh, hey.
I'll tell you what he can reference. It's fucking alien. They do it in that. Oh, shit. Female lead.
Oh, fuck. All right. No, we got this. Class Jedi. Horizon.
Oh, yeah. Maybe.
Yeah, but the point is, the point is they chose the most well-known film for that.
Exactly. It's not. Obviously, everyone's like, oh, yeah, everyone's seen that.
There's nothing off-front and then, then movie knowledge. They're not fucking pushing the SJW
agenda. This is that seeing the world through a lens thing. Yeah.
Yeah, his lens is so fucked. It's gone into his brain and just rotted every fucking logical
thing in there. Well, he's got to placate his audience too. That's true. They want to hear
this stuff. Even though this video wasn't well-received, I think even his audience were like,
you're pushing it a bit at this one. It's Avengers movie a week ago,
saying it was too male, no less. And it looks like Marvel has recognized that too,
and that's why they're overcorrecting now. There's also a giant midget in the movie.
Oh, my God. When you thought you was done, Nick, listen.
Oh, my God.
You know that not only are they trying to appease women,
they're also trying to appease those disabled folk.
The fucking midget community. Fuck them.
I don't care if you're underrepresented. You don't belong in film.
I love the delivery of that as well. Like we should all understand very easily what his point is.
Yeah, I'm just watching this and my eyebrow just peaked up like with my head.
And it looks like Marvel has recognized that too,
and that's why they're overcorrecting now. There's also a giant midget in the movie.
The Hulk goes to in the movie to have him make a new weapon to fight Thanos.
The Hulk goes to? Did he say that?
Yeah, I think he did. I think no less. And it looks like Marvel has recognized that too,
and that's why they're overcorrecting now. There's also a giant midget in the movie.
That's right. He's the guy from Game of Thrones. And he's also the one the Hulk goes to in the movie.
He did say that. Yeah.
Yeah, the Hulk goes to the movie. Yeah, well, he's got a name.
Let's see. Let's see. He's like, he concludes his point gone.
Oh, yeah. So I just checked his video. He's got a talk. He's got a pinned comment says,
hey, guys, I misspoke at 1233. Of course, it was Thor went to get the new weapon, not Hulk.
Yeah, I figured that was just a misspeak.
Want to make sure I heard it right. Yeah. To have him make a new weapon to fight Thanos.
And I think having midget dwarf little person representation is certainly something a radical
leftist pro diversity anti ableist. Why do you? Why do you? I got a simple explanation.
I've got a simple explanation. Peter Dinklage is hot shit right now.
He's a good actor. And it's really cool. Like in a medicines that someone who's really small in
real life is playing a giant. Yeah. And they're dwarves. They're apparently dwarves in universe.
And that's what the wolves are in that universe. Yeah. And it's like, and it's like the same
reason why Sophie Turner or Charles dance to get loads of movie roles right now. They're hot shit
from Game of Thrones. It's not about fucking. It's not about fucking representing the little people.
Oh, come on. SJW would be all for another SJW point. Some could argue would be with vision.
Actually, actually, he's all about. Oh, that's what the SJW is all for. It's like,
well, you're against having midgets or little people in the film. Well, apparently he sees it
as if they're in the film, then it must be a result of SJWs. Listen, one midget is suspiciously too
many. Hey, hey, hey, what are you doing there? These are meme arguments that he's presenting.
What if he sees Charlie the Chocolate Factory? Does he just fucking melt?
Does he just go, there's too many fucking disables in you. Oh my God.
Who's a half robot, half alien hybrid. Who's also trying to transition into being human. Yup.
Oh, no. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Vision is a representation. No. Oh, no.
Oh, it ain't so. Guys, you can see how he, like, saved all the tism arguments for the end.
He's quickly making a getaway out of this. And he's like,
cheers, facts, guys, rate and subscribe, blah, blah, blah, bye.
How do I even write this down for Goodell? Like, how do I write this in a way that people,
I'm just like, you made that up. Vision equals trans, question mark.
Let's, let's hear it again. SJWs and Pinocchio, SJW propaganda.
Deus ex machina, or ex machina. All right. SJW propaganda.
The little mermaid. Little mermaid. Trans.
Dude, this is like, you know, you covered, you covered, you covered Riley Dennis. It's basically
like looking at Smash Brothers characters and being like, this person is clearly this.
No bullshit's unironically done it on the other end of the spectrum. He's like,
Vision clearly trans. Like, what is something that Riley J Dennis would also say on Iran?
Yeah, I'm so glad that because we have Vision, we have trans representation in mainstream films now.
Finally found equal ground. Argue would be with Vision, who's a half robot,
half alien hybrid, who's also trying to transition. I could, because it'd be thematic. I can't wait
to have someone make a meme where you have Riley J. Dennis and no bullshit on opposite
sides of the knife that Thanos is balancing. He's perfectly balanced his whole thing.
Yeah. The conclusion, Vision is trans.
Be with Vision.
That might be bad, question mark.
I've been refreshing. I got nothing on my end, so.
I can't log in.
I'll let you guys know the second anything happens.
Yeah, I got people writing midgets or reflect or comment about that,
so they must be up to.
The midget part. The midget propaganda. I made it there.
The propaganda. Sorry.
They're trying to make us accept midgets. This is unacceptable.
JW would be all for it.
My daddy didn't like midgets.
Who's a half robot, half alien hybrid, who's also trying to transition into being human.
Yup. Vision is a trans human if you think about it.
My colleague, if you think about it, you think about it really hard.
I love his influence. That argument was that, uh-huh.
Come on, man.
I can't like, what are you? I don't know. Like, I don't even.
Are you.
Even trying to put on this fake human form in some of the scenes.
There's also a big plot point.
Fake human form.
He just, he's fucking, he's with his G.F.
He's just like the real trans people.
He's trying to be like the real trans people.
Yeah, remember movie AI? The robot kid wants to be human.
Trans SJW propaganda.
He's trying to adapt, so he's more, so he, didn't he actually say in one scene that he, it's, um,
it's beneficial for him for people to treat him like human or something like that.
What do you think of that from another film?
This is, this scene is them trying to have a normal relationship is how they frame it.
They want to be together, so he obviously makes himself look more human.
So it's just simple as that.
And she's got, and she tells him off, um, uh, phasing through the wall instead of
walking through the doorway, doesn't she?
Oh, that's, uh, that's Civil War, but yes.
All right. Well, but yeah, but the point is he's not a trans fucking person.
He's not, he's not, he's not, he's not trying to, um, gain your acceptance.
He's transitioning.
This is mid-trans C on the left.
That's what he was on the right.
That's what he is now.
And who knows what he'll be in the future.
He's not a fucking dude wearing like a wig and, you know, begging you to accept him as a woman.
That's not what he's, that's not what he's doing.
And that's not what, uh, you know, I wonder what, you know, this also means
that what I can imagine what he would think about Soma.
Oh God.
Everyone in Soma is trans.
Yeah.
And also like, again, shall know probably like they can respond.
When was the storyline?
Well, when was vision written in the, in the comics?
You know, when did that happen?
Oh, you'd be like, yeah, yeah.
Is, is character or like the foundation of his character where he's,
well, he's created from, um, Jarvis or whatever.
I'm sure that was written like decades ago, or maybe not literally five minutes ago to,
you know, push the SJW operandus.
He operates on vision, trying to remove his infinity stone that's on his head.
Does that sound familiar?
Well, to me, that sounds almost like a set change up.
It's basically the same thing.
Oh my God.
Can we, can we get that again?
Can we just, we're sure he operates on vision on his head.
Well, to me, that sounds almost like a sex change operation.
Yeah, they're trying to push, they're trying to push transgender operations
via Shuri taken away.
I'm sorry.
I removed your penis, little one, but you have to die now.
So wait, see the, the, the Marvel movie is actually transphobic
because Thanos removes his true gender, the stone, and it kills him.
Yeah, he denies it.
Yeah, he denies him his true identity.
Yeah, yeah.
So that's, no, it's SJW propaganda.
What is stone and infinity stone?
How many genders are there?
Well, Jesus Christ, this, this plummeted so fast.
Oh man.
Also, for those who are listening right now and are desperate to chat,
and chat's not working for everybody, whatever.
If you go to my Discord, there's an Efap podcast chat talk channel.
You can go in there, but I don't think you can talk if you're a brand new viewer.
Yeah.
You've just joined the Discord though.
Well, I mean, people who are in the Discord, you can use that to chat for now, but I just.
There has been a few people in the pits talking, well, yeah,
younglings or whatever.
Good Lord.
But instead of removing his cock, Vision is getting his infinity stone removed.
Pretty degenerate, nonetheless.
He would try to remove it to stop Thanos from fucking obtaining it
so that he could fucking wipe out the planet or the world.
He's not a degenerate, but trying to save half the universe.
You fucking muppet.
Oh my God.
Pretty degenerate, nonetheless.
Wait, isn't that a plot line in Rick and Morty where they want
the dad to get his penis removed to save the president of the universe?
Yeah, actually, yeah.
It's confusing now.
Fuck, I really wish he does come up and just go, no, I don't like it
because there's black people in it.
He is so fucking bait with how he's fucking arguing this.
It's just like, yeah, they're all degenerates.
Breathe.
I don't even, like, I'm making notes for this for Godelb.
I don't know how I can fit this into a Godelb script.
Oh my goodness.
Pretty degenerate, nonetheless.
Just record this, well, just have this 30 minutes or that.
Just play this.
Yeah, just play it.
There's no need to edit it.
In the last SJW point I could think of is to do with Thanos.
In his big master plan of the movie, Thanos thinks the galaxy is overpopulated,
so he wants to collect the infinity stones and use them.
What's everyone's even guess here what he's going to say is SJW about this.
Okay, I think that he's going to try and tie this into environmentalism and climate change.
Yeah, with white guilt where we should stop having babies because we're the evil people.
It's also important to note whatever argument he makes is that Thanos is the villain.
Yeah, exactly.
But I am all ears.
Time to wipe out half the life in the universe.
That way the other half will have more resources for them to survive.
And if this plan sounds crazy and fucked up to you, don't worry.
We all think Thanos is a nut bar, but he himself thinks he's doing the right thing
in his own twisted way.
And this reminds me of the SJWs in a lot of ways, who also think they're doing the right thing many
times.
And they also think they're saving the world even though they're really destroying it.
So how was that?
How was that on SJW?
Isn't every bad guy ever thinks they're doing the right thing?
Yeah, Vulture.
I guess that's his point.
Yeah, SJWs are misguided and they think that they morally right in doing what they're doing
and Thanos thinks the same.
But if this is an SJW movie plot point, then why would they make the SJWs out to be the bad guys?
Doesn't this counter your points earlier?
I don't really care.
I'm more upset that Vision is trans now.
I don't know why you care about that when Spider-Man's coming out next week, dude.
Thanos is basically an SJW villain.
He's helping people who never ask for his help, and in a way which no one wants him to do it.
And this is very much like the radical left in current year.
In the end, I believe that a little injection of the so-called social justice-
I was going to say, isn't that the opposite?
When you say like anti-SJW moments in Infinity War, that would be one of them.
Yeah, that kind of devalues what you've been saying up to me.
If you characterize the SJW as the villain,
then yeah, that's doing a disservice to-
Obviously, pro actually.
A made-up agenda, it is.
Justice elements in the films can be acceptable,
as long as it doesn't ruin the movie or ruin the story or the enjoyment of it.
Back to the Star Wars comparisons, well, The Last Jedi was a huge pile of SJW garbage
because its main plot strongly promotes the ideologies of leftist movements.
At the expense of the plot of the movie, and sending Star Wars so off the rails,
it might never come back.
And this damage to the Star Wars brand will surely be reflected on the box office of
the next Star Wars film, Solo, which is coming out in a couple weeks.
However, something as trivial as a-
Uh, uh, I don't want to lie to you guys, but there's a woman on that trailer poster.
God, it's true.
There's two of them.
There is fucking two of them.
There's also L, uh, three, three, seven or whatever.
Oh god, yeah, the sexualized robot.
That's three wamans to four males.
I bet you had a fucking fit as well when that robot has sex with Lando.
I'm sure.
It was implied or whatever.
Fifteen second clip of Shuri showing up Banner in Infinity War doesn't necessarily ruin this movie.
It's just a little cringy.
The rest of the movie holds it up though.
And since Infinity War's main plot is based on Thanos, who is an SJW villain-
Are you doing a microphone, you piece of shit?
I don't think that he's an SJW villain.
I mean-
Dude, his justification was he's doing a thing that he thinks is right.
It's like, oh.
Because most villains do it because they think it's absolutely the worst wrong thing to do.
Thanos thinks he's the hero?
Somebody asked in the Discord, is Spider-Man transitioning into a spider?
It's so degenerate.
Yeah, that's pretty degenerate.
Wait, wouldn't the Hulk be trans too?
I mean, he's literally transitioning into another creature.
A green man.
No, but you see that that point was erectile dysfunction.
So it's-
Oh, of course.
Would you rather have your P.P. no get hard or have it cut off?
You've by Thanos, you die during surgery.
It's like, oh no.
Direction here.
Tell them I died as a-
With the rest of you, poor woman.
Affinity War being really good and great.
I would certainly say the movie is not a total SJW girl power shit show.
It's just got a few groaner lines in there and scenes, which I could look over in the long run.
They were all some minor points, so I'm not going to be offended by something this small.
If I was getting offended-
I don't know, man.
I mean, you were offended by everything else instead, dude, sir.
You're offended by big midgets, man.
I don't know what to say.
Yeah, it's a big midget.
You're offended by women.
You're offended by blacks.
You're offended by young people.
You're offended by-
Suspicious amounts of women.
Robots wanting to become human.
You're offended by yellow stones representing cocks.
I wrote that one down.
There is a suspicious amount of women in this piece of media.
I'd like that that easily.
I would be no better than the SJWs.
What do you guys think?
Was Avengers Affinity War another great Marvel movie?
He's so not Affinity, he made a 15 minute video about this.
I feel like you're really, really stretching.
Absolutely.
I like that he crushed, though, all the crazy points into that last two minutes.
Yeah.
It's so that only the pure fans of crazy SJW shit would stay around for that.
They'd probably agree.
Ah, there you go.
Ah, yes.
Yeah, he just dropped a nuke and he just walked off like, yeah, definitely see.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cringing at the scene where Shuri disrespects Banner.
And do you think of Masculine the Hulk was an intentional anti-male move?
And it's certainly part of this more female, more girl power type stories in Marvel.
Comment your thoughts on every-
You know, I don't know if he's reviewed the next Avengers movie,
but he's you think he's going to say the same thing about making Thor.
What?
Jay said that he was actually pretty positive about Endgame.
Like as a whole?
Really?
Even though that like definitely has like the worst, most-
I mean, we couldn't-
The worst moment ever.
We can check it out.
Yeah, so the only two videos, these three videos he's got to do with Endgame
are Avengers Endgame cast hate Brie Larson, which, you know, everyone's made a video about that.
SJW's attack Avengers Endgame over representation.
I'm not even sure how that would work.
And then hot take Avengers Endgame.
We could watch that one if you want after this.
Let's see what his hot take is.
How long is it?
It's 1248.
But we don't have to watch the whole thing.
Obviously.
Well, we don't have to watch it at all.
It's up to you guys.
Can we just skip to the last two minutes?
We'll just take a gamble.
Anything below.
Thanks for watching.
No bullshit.
See y'all next time.
That's weird because there's a lot of bullshit in that.
Yeah, there's a bit.
Oh, yeah.
Well, so out of those three, which one do you want to see?
Interestingly, Avengers Endgame cast hate Brie Larson has 74% right now.
It's like, I don't care about that.
Obviously, Harry reacts to Endgame.
All right, then.
I think it's self.
Let's just go and Brie Larson's a woman.
In that bad, it's just annoying.
I mean, Brie Larson is a woman, sir.
So how do you apply otherwise?
And that's offensive.
She's suspiciously a woman.
I can't see a number about you.
She's suspiciously a woman.
Ask me if that's the word.
It's suspiciously something.
So.
Welcome back to Hot Take Here Are No Bullshit.
Where we review the latest movies and give you our hot take on them.
Oh, dude.
Me?
Oh, Jesus.
Today's topic is the long awaited and much anticipated Avengers Endgame.
The culmination of three phases.
Marvel Cinematic Universe.
But does Endgame live up to all the hype?
Because there sure is a lot of people count on this flick to do well.
We're going to talk about that today and more here on Hot Take.
First, let me say we are going to get to the Captain Marvel part of this movie.
It's a very small part, but we are going to review it.
I know you're in the talk of the day.
Jay just said his Endgame take is really boring.
Should we just skip to the last two minutes?
He says anything crazy.
I want to get to the part where he talks about women and the Captain Marvel.
That's like clockwork apparently.
Let's go back a bit.
Lowest part of the movie.
The one main complaint I have is because all the girls came together in this big giant fight,
like out of nowhere.
You knew the fight was really big in the wide shots and they were like all over the place.
But then all of a sudden, Captain Marvel says something.
These girls all sync up on the battlefield for some reason.
I don't know why Marvel wanted to do that.
I thought it was unnecessary, but it wasn't the worst thing.
But you know, it's like, oh, God damn.
Another minor complaint I'd have with the movie was I really wanted more Spider-Man.
I wanted more Spider-Man.
He didn't actually say why it was bad, though.
I'm surprised you think you'd have a whole video for that.
Yeah, it's like the whole point is you can't just say, oh, all these women were together.
Well, there's a reason why it's bad.
Yeah, you know how you made the meme, the whole suspicious about of women.
That was like, what, a promotional shot, wasn't it?
It wasn't even in the film.
That's just the cast all standing in their costumes going, look at us, we're in the film.
And if you remember, none of them even needed an agenda.
Captain Marvel isn't alone.
It's like none of you are required for her to get to her destination.
But OK, like they all do blast a laser.
And that was just like, oh, this is like she could have just fucking flowed past him.
But OK, man and Doctor Strange, they keep pushing Captain Marvel.
But these are the characters that people really like.
These are the ones we want to see.
And even Spider-Man, he had a big part in the story.
He was actually a key player as opposed to Captain Marvel,
just like showing up and doing this and that.
And then blah, blah, blah.
No reason.
Like what do you I don't even agree with that.
She she had a reason that she actually had an important effect on the story as part of
why I don't like it.
Like they're destroying his ship annoyed me.
She had a lot more influence on the plot than Spider-Man.
Yes, Spider-Man just carried the gauntlet for a bit.
She saves Tony in the beginning of the movie.
Yep.
He saves everybody.
They were all going to die in the Thanos fight, but she destroys the ship.
Somebody said he's like a more big town looking saga.
Spider-Man had this emotional connection.
Oh yeah, he hates saga.
Well, he hates sargon when he thought it was beneficial.
I don't know if he still hates sargon because it didn't get him what he wanted.
Like he made the video that like I'm pretty sure is still up actually.
Yeah, it was pretty.
Yeah, it was it was very, very poorly received.
Yeah.
And he was like he made like two parts and then he just stops because people like shut the fuck up.
Yeah, the fall of sargon.
That's what his series was called.
It's like the guy who flies.
I've seen in my family.
I've seen in the feeder.
He wanted to bank on.
I'm pretty sure that was the was that the crowd stuff that was happening.
I think it was around then around then because they tried.
They really tried to get sargon like implicated and all that.
And he wanted to try and bank on it and it didn't work.
And he gave up.
He was like, Tony Stark and then Dr. Strange had a big part too.
Like he was the one that kind of like saw the future.
Dr. Strange had a big part puts a picture of Spider-Man on the screen.
Okay, this is Dr. Strange.
This is from homecoming as well.
It's like this is a strange choice.
They could win this whole battle in the last movie,
but it seemed like they were pushed to the side for this to do other stuff.
And it's fine.
I know there's a lot of it's also I'm annoyed that the fire.
It's not the same size as the frame.
It's not what do you mean?
Like the background picture.
He's got these tiny black lines.
Like he didn't make the picture the same size on the left.
It looks full for me.
Yeah, I see the little black line on the left.
But is that a here?
Let me go to when it goes back to him.
It disappears.
I think let me go to 1132 and see if a marshmallow had a face in a beard.
That's racist.
I think you might.
Oh, sorry.
Play.
Oh, it the fire doesn't even move, does it?
No.
No, it's just like it.
It's just it zooms in a little.
It slowly but surely zooms in over time.
With all that said, let's go and get to the hot take meter.
I'll easily give Avengers Endgame for even a little sound effect.
I love it.
Ladies out of five.
That's an eight out of 10.
It's a really good score.
Four out of five.
Five is eight out of ten.
It might have been a little bit better.
I think I was telling him.
Why?
Why did he just.
That I like a little more.
This isn't like the best of the best, but it's definitely like top two.
I think it's it's kind of bad because I think the four out of five is transitioning into the
eight out of three top five.
It's way at the top.
It's really cool.
But wait, side note.
What is what's that on his microphone?
That black thing on his microphone.
I guess it's part of the design.
I don't know.
Yeah, it could be tape.
Actually, like paper or something.
Is it duct taped or like masking tape or some electrical tape?
Maybe I wonder.
I wonder what that's for.
Well, I agree.
Black appetite.
He's probably holding it out for whatever reason.
Maybe it'll fall off.
Fall apart.
All right.
Once it came before.
Look, his microphone represents erectile dysfunction.
Of course, the tape is black.
The black tape is doing all the work for the shiny, his pristine microphone.
I see.
Think just with a combination of the sad endings and a few characters.
I want to see more.
There's a few things in there, but minor nitpicks.
Overall, really good movie.
Thanks for watching this new episode of Hot Take, everyone.
I want to go ahead and tease our next video.
I could possibly maybe if you guys are interested.
Make an SJW moments in Avengers Endgame.
That could be the next video.
Oh, yes, please do it.
We'll cover it.
I wonder if he actually got like approval for that,
considering the one on Infinity War wasn't well received.
Hello.
Oh, wow.
All of you just fucking phased out for a second, huh?
One more time.
Oh, just he's so he's saying like, hey, audience,
should I make a SJW moments in Endgame?
And I'm like, I wonder if his audience were like,
uh, you went on Infinity War was kind of poop.
So maybe not, but he's got more to work with in Endgame
because he could he could spend 10 minutes on that scene.
He could just talk about that scene forever.
Well, he just skipped over here.
I don't know why he didn't go for it here.
Well, I think it's because this is a genuine take.
While his SJW was his have been like, yes, I am bad about these things.
So when he when he when he came in to pen the paper,
that's when that's when he kicks off.
Right.
He'll spend 10 minutes on Thor being fat.
That's the SJW.
So to complete the trifecta.
Did you know that 63% of fans liked Game of Thrones season eight?
Oh, God, let me use the bathroom.
Yeah, I get the bio out.
So this is a good we meant to cover this on last episode.
We didn't have enough time.
This is our good friend, Monday, Matt.
He's a he liked Game of Thrones season eight.
I think he liked it a lot.
And so he's made a couple of videos being like, hey, it's not that bad.
I don't know if you knew this, but he said that if you hate season eight,
your issue is with George RR Martin, not with D&D.
What do you think?
Hello.
Sitch.
All right, then it's just me and you.
Well, you were there, so you knew my take.
I just birthed a laugh and insulted him.
Hey, man, Monday, Matt is full of the V takes.
I feel like he like pursues a take no one else has.
And then it's like, you realize this is a terrible one, right?
It's like, but I don't want to like, I don't want to like just be this reaction.
I just like calls everyone a fucking retard every time I watch a video on the show.
But he really was fucking retarded.
I don't have words for it, you know.
Are you there?
Yeah, I just I was in the bathroom.
Oh, did you hear what he said?
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
What happened?
So on the previous podcast, we covered Monday, Matt covering season eight.
He enjoyed it.
And he said, okay.
He said that if anyone has a problem with it, then their issue is with George RR Martin, not D&D.
How does that make any sense?
Because he didn't provide them the source in order to adapt at that point.
So it's his fault.
Well, I mean, you could say he has some responsibility.
But that doesn't mean that they could that D&D can just fuck off.
Understand a writer cannot write without a source.
That's not a thing.
Like George can, obviously, but that's different.
I don't know how to make up things in my mind as a writer.
And who could have possibly come up with a good, good, gooder ending than what D&D did?
Every person on the planet.
What we got was the goodest it could have been.
Every person in every YouTube comment, in every Reddit comment,
everyone's like, Oh, here's a better ending.
Yeah, I'm honestly stuck all the way back at the point of being like,
out of all of the possible endings we could have had in the universe talking billions,
we got in the bottom 100.
Unfortunately, we had a really bad selection.
Do you think that the end with Bran being king?
Do you think that George RR Martin told them that in the books,
Bran would be king and they just didn't properly work up to that?
Or was that just their own creation?
They just pulled that out of their butt.
The ruling theory right now is that every significant end point
is what George will have it as as well.
But like, I would never believe for a second that he would have it as
badly progressed as the show did.
Yeah, well, this is the problem that George is in.
He doesn't know how to get to that point whilst making it good.
That's why he hasn't managed to write the last book still.
Yeah, for all we know, the new books could be terrible.
Well, one thing that is confirmed that will happen in the show that will happen in the
books is Shireen being burned by Stannis and the Hodor thing probably.
Yeah.
Yeah.
And well, I know those two things are being confirmed,
but obviously how Shireen gets melted in the books, I think is going to be,
well, a lot better and hopefully will actually make sense.
But again, this is the problem.
George doesn't know how to get there himself by the sounds of it
because he can't finish these books.
I mean, I can't conceptualize in the books that Dany will just become evil
because she's even more of a good guy in the books than she was in the show.
You could have fixed it, though, by literally just having it destroy the red
keep and kill a bunch of innocent people as a result of it.
Fixed.
Done.
Right.
I don't think George is stupid enough to have her specifically
target women and children who are fleeing their lives.
Well, systematically mow them down.
Go back to Matt, anyway, himself.
The other thing in the video that he did cover was he made reference to
full metal alchemist.
I don't know if have you seen full metal alchemist, Sitch?
Yeah, of course.
Right.
Oh, cool.
So, you know, all right.
So, you know, so you OK, just just for the audience, then you got full metal alchemist
and you got full metal alchemist brotherhood, brotherhood being the anime adaption of the
manga where it was well, it was made after the manga had completely completed or finished.
So they had a full script to work on.
Yeah.
And then the original full metal alchemist anime was following the anime up to a point.
And then they are not following the manga up to a point.
And then they run out while the manga run out before it.
So they had to finish off the anime just to conclude it.
Yeah.
Right.
He acknowledges this, but he makes no reference to how that like applies with Game of Thrones or
anything.
He's just the whole blame is all on George's fault, George's doorstep.
And if anyone does know, George is like, well, from the Begeko was like saying,
oh, we need like, you know, 10 plus seasons of Game of Thrones to do this.
And HBO slash D&D were like, now we're going to give you seven or maybe eight a push.
And well, what I'm getting at is they have they never fully respected the time to complete
or to do the story that George Ritz or had set out anyway in the first place.
But fuck, it is all his fault.
Anyway, you know, it's just it's all it's a crazy.
It's a crazy point.
If if HBO itself is like, look, D&D, we want to give many episodes as you want.
And they're choosing the piece out.
Okay.
Away from that.
And there there's no one they can blame with themselves.
They had all the time in the world to build up whatever ending they wanted.
Everyone knows the meme.
Like, how can we not blame D&D when they're saying shit like Danny
kind of forgot the iron fleet?
Like, how do you say this?
Do they go back to it from last time?
Yeah, they also the whole they're not even aware that Sam's a POV character,
which implies that not only had they not read the books,
they didn't even read like a fucking cliff note of the books.
I reckon they did read them, but they haven't read them recently at that point.
And they didn't read them again.
They were like, oh, he has POV, huh?
Well, I think that all had writing aids go right.
You know, read all the Sam POVs.
Now tell me how to tell me how we write the salmon.
They are responsible for the first four seasons.
You know, so it's like, I think I'm the prevailing theory for me is that
they lost their investment.
They became apathetic about the series.
Yeah, there's there's small cracks even in the beginning.
Because like, remember, they had Shay for some reason in the show,
they make it so that Shay loves Tyrion.
When in the books, it's obvious, not obvious,
but it's hinted that she's just using him.
And that's what leads to her betraying him.
So you go, Oh, okay.
She was just using him from the beginning.
So then why the hell in the TV show would they make it?
So no, no, she actually loves him.
So then when she betrays him, it makes absolutely no sense.
And yeah, how much they fucked up Tysha.
Yeah, well, not the whole Tyrion arc there.
That's the whole defining bit of Oh, fuck, we can't be asked with this,
even though, even though we included the scenes from season one of referencing
Tysha and Tyrion's arc with that.
We're still not gonna give a shit about it come season four, because I don't know.
Details.
I don't know.
We don't even get a definitive answer on whether or not Shay betrayed him for money,
like for getting involved with Tywin or because her life was threatened.
That's never even answered.
We did and she just wants to kill Tyrion.
Straight up.
When she next sees him.
It's like, Jesus, like, what, why didn't?
And this is the thing, that's season four.
So people say in like, you know, seasons one through six, the gold age, I'm always like, no.
Yeah, I know this.
I think there's a lot of romanticism towards it now, because obviously,
nothing is bad as season eight, though.
I'll happily conclude the season.
Wonderful are like, yeah, they are different to be better than everything else that the show
had, as you know, as seasons go, obviously, they, you know, they might have individual
episodes or individual scenes that are awesome or better.
But a season as far as ago, season wonderful is, you know, the peak game of thrones.
But even then, well, also, people don't know for me, but like, I was abandoned that shit
at season four.
And that was like, the whole time, like, going through season two, three and four,
salty about so many changes that the books were from the books.
All right.
And Ozzy back then, I was just moaning to you really.
And yeah, you know, that was it.
But it's been a long time coming for this show, you know, logistically.
Well, Al, didn't, you know, 63% of people like to be with thrones.
I just want to punch you when you say and I know that you're
fucking taking the piss out of him, but I want to punch you right now.
Stop it.
Let's see.
I haven't even someone unless they tell you to smile.
We've established that's actually his title of the fucking video as well.
That's not just a quote.
You fucking.
Yeah, that's the flag with that.
Are you fucking it?
Well, let's see what the other.
I have actually seen any of this video, so I don't even know what we're in for here.
Oh, what's going on, everyone?
My name is Matt Jarbo.
This is three buck theater.
And it's been almost a week since the series finale of Game of Thrones.
And it's been a whirlwind week.
If you do any bit of online coverage or if you are just a fan of the show and you are like,
ah, there's been finale or you were like the finale.
It's kind of like you either like it or you don't like it.
If you yeah, they are the only two options, really.
I mean, generally speaking, yeah, that's that's normally the
stands where most things you either don't like it.
Don't like it.
Look, it's either something or something.
It's not.
I don't fuck whatever I feel.
I feel like a crazy person.
I'm like, yeah, you either don't like it or like it.
Then you get more specific because that's like the only two things you can even do.
But OK.
Comes to Game of Thrones or quite literally is nothing in between.
It's simply you either love it or you hate it.
And if you dabble in this YouTube space, it's what you're still doing.
For some reason, which you haven't stopped.
Shots fired tend to not like it here,
which could then influence other people to believe that,
quite frankly, that no one liked it anywhere.
Couldn't the same be said for people who liked it?
Yeah.
Why are you running so much defense for HBO?
I don't know.
Because he's Monday and he's an idiot.
Honestly, the video we watch, he actually says at one point,
like the reason the show is stopping is because of HBO and that they weren't
going to be allowing it to go on and shit like that.
And it was just funny because it's like that's completely not true.
Yeah, the opposite of true.
But I don't know if he didn't have access to that information
when he made the video or whatever.
But yeah, that video was terrible.
But yeah, the truth is the question ultimately does become is Game of Thrones
or was Game of Thrones finale the most hated ever?
And I'm just using this headline as an example,
because we saw quite a bit of this.
Oh, dude, look at those references.
You got Dexter House of Cards.
Is that Scrubs?
On the bottom left with Turk or is that someone else?
It looks like the actor.
Yeah.
And then bottom right.
I don't know what that is.
I know Lost should be in there, though.
I must be distinct because I'm at 48 seconds and I just see.
Yeah, we're at 57.
57.
How is Battle Star Galactica not on that picture?
I'm just using this headline.
Is that shit before the ending?
Well, that's that's fair.
Well, I was just going to say, do you want to drag it to like 50
and then hopefully it'll pull all of us.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's good.
Yeah, let's all get to the same spot.
Just allow for this.
The most hated ever.
Everyone on 51.
51.
Yes.
So yeah, that picture, I'm assuming it's referencing Scrubs,
House of Cards, Game of Thrones, Dexter, and then a fourth, fifth show.
I'm not sure what it is.
I feel bad for not recognizing who that lady is.
Someone in.
I was going to say someone in chat,
recognizing like a podcast talk.
Does anyone recognize who the woman on the bottom right of that article is?
Don't talk about Sargon's beard for some reason.
Sargon is a very combed boy.
Okay.
We rely on you people for information.
Just for them.
They're not paying attention.
This is their answer.
It's completely different.
But yeah, no, this could be very well the most hated season finale of anything ever,
because fuck me, who even cared that House of Cards ended badly?
Considering like by that point, there was like no way to be invested in that fucking show.
Well, not to be like, you know, elitist or something smaller,
but we were saying there was shit way before everyone else was saying there was shit.
We called it death at the end of season three.
Yeah.
Most people were up in arms really when Kevin Spacey got out as a pedophile.
This is actually the show.
I mean, well, yeah.
That's what I mean.
Like who was invested in Game of Game of Thrones House of Cards at that point?
Yeah.
And well, I know people were pissed about Dexter and lost Scrubs less.
So I remember Scrubs just sort of faded away.
No, no, no, it's more the case that season seven of Scrubs ended like it peaked.
Well, the last episode of season seven is amazing.
It's like one of the most revered episodes of the show.
But the problem was season eight introduced or carried on.
They they they when they did the whole like scrub, well,
like a new generation of doctors or whatever.
And they all went to the university and all the scrubs cast teach there.
Now that was the problem.
Scrubs.
It wasn't the end of season seven.
I don't I don't think.
Oh, wait, wasn't they also had the whole abortion thing in the last season?
Like Jesus showing up and telling him like not to get an abortion.
All right.
Some image of Jesus like saying, no, JD, you can't do that.
Well, yeah.
Well, JD just talked to by when he's like in the show, he's referred to.
Well, he's like acknowledged that he talks to himself and he's weird.
But I don't know.
I think we should let Matt talk shit for a bit and find out.
So I mentioned how I met your mother.
I'm assuming that's not the bottom, right?
That is another show that people.
Yeah, everyone hated that.
Yeah, we got a lot of them.
A lot of shows end badly.
It's kind of lame that there's TV shows kind of like, you know,
most of them outstay the welcome and then shit the bed before.
Oh, yeah.
Weird from team YouTube themselves.
They're trying to fix the problem right now.
This is the weirdest app ever.
We're streaming without knowing anybody's watching at all.
Other than the discord people, which is odd, but hey.
Oh, yeah, I don't know how many people.
And I don't know what they're saying.
I can't even log into apparently arch and Sargon and Discordia and other people
are having problems signing in and Mahler is.
So this happened earlier this week and it was weird.
But twice in a week is odd for YouTube.
Hopefully it gets solved.
I hope so.
Breaking Bad did end well.
I'm happy with Breaking Bad's ending.
I agree.
Chat.
I can still see the things in most recent memory.
I agree with the chat that I can see.
I liked how Mad Men ended as well, but that's.
That's my favorite TV show.
I think it's Angel, but I feel like they calm down.
Everybody's fucking watching that shit.
Wait, what did the Mad Men finally calm down?
No, that's why the show ended.
They started to calm down like that.
I don't want to be angry about that show.
I don't want to be angry about that show.
I want to see Matt embarrass himself.
Just using this headline as an example, because we saw quite a bit of this
over the span of the last week, even going over into Rotten Tomatoes.
We can see that season eight as a whole had a 58% total from critics.
Motherfucker, just say that it wasn't well received.
That's all you've got to do.
Like it's you don't need to be like, as you can see that over.
As you can see, people are fucking upset.
And a 35% total from audience members now with Rotten Tomatoes,
new system of verification in regards to reviews impacting the audience score.
Who knows if we're ever going to see anything like this.
Look, user ratings.
Ten thousand one hundred thirty one average rating two point four out of five.
Oh, that's like eight out of ten for those who want to know.
That is not hot.
Why is he making videos on Game of Thrones when I can't even.
That's a popcorn tipped over.
Ray in luck.
They've shown an image of it.
Oh, no, they were so upset that they dropped the popcorn.
The audiences are so.
I can't eat at a time like this.
They lived at their own living rooms.
This ever again in regards to TV, but a lot of people weren't happy with it.
And they were vocal online, especially when you look here at the series finale itself
with a forty nine percent saying here that if nothing else, the Iron Throne is a bittersweet
if unfortunately bland series finale that ensures Game of Thrones fans will linger on the fate
of their favorite characters for some time.
Will they ever be satisfied by the show's conclusion?
Ask us again.
It didn't know.
No, it will get worse and worse.
It'll get so much worse.
Let's just assume I say assume let's just hope fingers crossed that
in ten years time wins the winter part one comes out.
Yeah.
Let's just hope that in ten years time that happens and your job is still alive.
And actually, you know, well, you know, nothing's killed him yet.
It's still going to be bad even regardless of if the books ever like answered like,
you know, this is how it should have happened.
You know, it doesn't want a nightmare.
Well, that would be if the books acted as like attempting to fix the show.
Yeah.
And if the two books do come out in the next ten years and they answer all the bullshit and
they, you know, and it ends spectacularly like all the loose ends are finally done and dusted,
which we know is never going to happen.
But let's just say that happens.
The TV show is still going to be shipped and it's still going to even work.
It's still going to be even worse.
Well, it is going to it is going to erode with time because nobody's going to fucking
in ten years time if people go, oh, hey, I'm thinking of watching a TV show.
What should I watch?
Are people going to go with Game of Thrones knowing how it ends?
I mean, if you do, this is the thing.
The only time I intend to fucking watch is research.
I don't really want to watch it for entertainment ever again.
I don't want to watch it ever again.
I want to finish the books, but I don't ever want to watch it again.
And if I watched like season one, then then, you know, get full in love with it.
I know that I'm setting myself up for fucking massive disappointment.
It's not it goes the same as the cards.
It's like, do I want to watch?
You can watch season one and two and then pretend it ends.
That's the best you got.
Yeah, well, and to be fair with that, that almost concludes well,
because when he becomes president, that's kind of where I thought
it would have should have ended on a good point or on a high.
But it was interesting to see how well how Frank's presidency went on.
But they well, they didn't think about that.
They just go, oh, shit, he's evil and shit.
I'm shocked the HBO executives let them do this because they're they want to
like roll out a bunch of Game of Thrones prequels and make like a whole
you know, Game of Thrones cinematic universe.
And this basically killed that.
Yeah, people like this is a T.L.J. of Game of Thrones.
Like it's all the same hallmarks of like in the franchise recover.
It's like, will it will it have just like spiked its viewers up to this point?
And I mean, how much damage is this actually dealt that you just look over
to the MCU that's often shaft all this like Cape shit, superhero bullshit.
It's like, oh, it was like super successful and satisfying for fans.
It's still going as strong and that's again, a very, very interesting way
to look at it because it's true.
A lot of people out there were I think hoping you can say that.
I watched it a couple of times.
I felt they ended it decently.
Decently.
What a what a.
That's a very mundane take there.
If you've seen all the cast who are who are criticizing the critics,
they don't say that it was good.
They say, oh, the people worked so hard to get this last season.
It's funny when you hear him say like the production people, the actors,
the blah, blah, blah, and we're all we're nodding along and then they go the writers.
We're like, whoa, whoa, let's not get carried away.
The sets were great, but let's not.
Not every one of my wish fulfillment moments were hit.
In fact, probably none of my wish.
Oh, oh, apparently chat is back now.
Let me try to log in and I can log in.
Oh, we're back in boys.
Oh, but you're not you're not sure alive now.
We're doing it.
We're doing it.
We're doing it.
Yeah, let me refresh again.
I'm back.
I'm waiting for it to just fuck up again, but I'll be like, well,
well, chat is live.
I can see people coming in, but I don't know.
Well, obviously we don't know if everyone is back.
Well, I can I can see that I was just able to log in.
Oh, no, it is all working.
I'm just saying, like, you know, unless everyone in chat answers,
we don't know if they're all back.
Do we know?
No, yeah, well, you know, I'll just we'll just I'll mention it.
Hopefully you guys can get back into chat.
If you can't, it's fine.
We'll carry on.
It's okay.
He's very in line with the rest of the series.
And I feel that they let they gave us an ending.
No, no, wait.
No, no, wait a minute.
First of all, it's like the whole the ending was not bittersweet.
That's bullshit.
Okay.
The exception of Danny getting killed.
Everyone got a happy end.
Oh, right.
Well, I don't know if John got a happy end.
Do you seem kind of like meh about the whole thing?
He just gets to pay his little doggo and go off to live in the wild forest
with his wildling friends.
Sansa definitely got what she wanted.
Arya got what she wanted.
Fucking Tyrion says nobody gets what they want.
That is like that's not even true.
But okay.
Sam's the fucking Grand Maester somehow.
That pisses me off so much, dude.
Like and I and I talk about this in my last Game of Thrones video,
which I uploaded yesterday.
But the conflict in the early Game of Thrones,
it used to always be if someone is killed or, you know,
if someone kills someone else, it doesn't resolve the conflict.
It just creates more problems down the road.
And when they killed Ned, it didn't just solve the problem with the North.
It caused all the war to happen.
It caused all these problems to happen.
And that's the difference in the later seasons of Game of Thrones.
It's like when Cersei kills all the Tyrells in the church,
nothing happens after it.
She just wins.
Oh, yeah, dude.
They that's well into the problems of the show coming to a head when it's just like,
no, there's no repercussions for anything anymore.
Things just happen.
Do you love, by the way, that the North separates itself from the kingdoms
and yet the South somehow have dominion over the the night's watch
and can make people go there as punishment?
Like exactly.
Yeah, it's so absurd.
How is Bran supposed to exile people to a land he doesn't control?
The fact the unsullied to have I don't want to get into a whole thing,
but I fucking hate episode six.
I hate all of it.
It's all so stupid.
What happened to the Dothraki?
They went back with the unsullied, I guess, because fuck it.
They flew back to their home planet.
Oh, man.
But yes, tell us more about how it was a perfect end to this than to the season.
Matt, go ahead.
That is OK.
So that's just kind of what I think.
What about when we start really breaking it down and people go out there and start polling people?
Well, according to this Hollywood reporter poll here,
the most Game of Thrones viewers actually liked the.
Tell the point of this video is to be like a man.
Yeah, it was actually good.
You guys are wrong.
People liked it, though, you know, it was great.
It went so well when your defense liked it when your defense of a piece of media is people
liked it, though.
Oh, God.
Like, how bad is it?
The ending despite the online outrage.
Now, the reason why this is an interesting subject to cover is because I was watching
Midnight's Edge is kind of video about the future of D.B. Weiss and David Benioff and
going into Star Wars and if that's going to hurt more Game of Thrones shows on HBO.
And he had made it getting them away from Game of Thrones is the absolute best thing you can do
for Game of Thrones right now.
Yeah, but now they're going to be in Star Wars.
Well, do you think Star Wars can be made it further than it already has?
It's a good point.
Yeah, well, what do you what are you predicting in the next 10 years from Star Wars?
I don't think I think good.
No, but this is the thing.
It's like, can can the next predator film be as bad as the predators?
What do you reckon?
Probably.
I mean, this is the thing, it's possible.
But like, how bad can we get before you go?
You know what?
Surely the next one will actually be better.
Well, they already did like so much that made or so much the law of the world builder that
made the first two good.
And then I don't know what else could they until you like until they straight up to say,
oh, by the way, the predators are just, you know, I don't know.
Cowardly fucking insects from a planet where they ran away because they were they were.
Yeah, just take everything about them and just invert it.
That's all this all seems to be the plan these days.
Yeah, I can't really say anything how they can make it quote,
quote, worse.
Game of Thrones can go back and get further worse, I suppose.
But I don't know.
Comment this would be Andre made a comment about how no one liked the finale.
But the poll here, and this is from the Hollywood report.
No.
OK, anyone, anyone, anyone who said no one liked the finale is obviously being hyperbolic.
Yeah, right.
The whole poll said the scientific poll.
Well, I'm not going to come up with any arguments of my own here.
I'm just going to say that a bunch of people in Hollywood said they liked it.
The thing is, yeah, my whole family, right?
They ripped into episode six.
Hollywood production.
My whole family were watching that season.
They loved the first two episodes.
They thought three and four were and then five and six were like bad.
And if you would ask them from the moment they finished it, did you like it?
They probably would have been like, yeah, yeah, I guess I had fun.
You know, entertaining.
But if you would talk to them for five seconds about what they actually thought of what
happened to the episodes, they'd be telling you everything that's wrong with it.
They'd be like, yeah, this was shit.
This was shit.
This made no sense.
Actually, yeah, thinking about it.
I'm not so like the idea that you took a random poll and the answers were yes or no.
So did you like it's like what does this even tell you?
You fucking useless suggests absolutely otherwise.
According to this, it says in the wake of Game of Thrones finale on Sunday, the narrative
surrounding the night was.
Oh, I just read.
I just read ahead.
The survey was comprised of two thousand thousand.
There we go.
So well done, Matt.
Well done.
How many people watch this again?
Different ages, genders and ethnicities.
Were there any dwarves in there like giant?
No, one dwarf is too many.
How many suspicious women were there?
Oh, man, I don't even want to fucking listen to fucking breathe.
Half of the people who answered the survey were women.
Suspiciously.
The phrase divisive.
But how did the series ending episode actually play with most viewers?
Opinions were mixed.
A new study finds some twenty six percent of viewers who watched the final episode
replied that they liked the finale a lot, while thirty seven percent liked it.
Some twenty four percent didn't really like it.
What an amazing poll.
This tells you so much.
If you make something in forty two percent of your audience are frustrated by it.
You're fucked up.
Yeah, especially Game of Thrones has been like failing since, you know, we're talking
end of season four.
Let's just say that the end of that.
And so, like for that long, fans have been like, no, still love it.
Still love it.
Still love it.
Like this is a show that gets gets passes because of its past glory.
And yet they still got to this result in the end.
So I'm sorry, but I'm just more pissed that he's fucking choosing the hill.
Die on of fucking two thousand people watching it.
How many millions of fans or how many millions of people are tuned in to watch it?
I'm going to quickly look at that argument for why it's good, you know.
I think the point of this video is to reveal to the world.
It turns out not everyone hates it.
And it's like, yeah, we know that.
Yeah, we know there's.
Yeah, we know some people are interesting, but you think he's going to try to be like,
oh, this proves all the hatred of Game of Thrones.
YouTube is just overblown.
He's already said that in another video.
A loud minority.
That's all it is.
Yeah.
So he was looking for this poll, basically.
He's like, where's the one poll that shows more people like Game of Thrones?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah, this is sketchy and polls that do the reverse.
Yeah.
Oh, there we go.
So the finale had a live view count with something like 14 million TV viewers.
And that's the people who live count.
And that's for people.
Well, that's for people who, you know, who pay for HBO and watch it on that.
And then just watch it off a stream.
Yeah.
People who have a financially invested interest in the show might have a more.
Well, two thousand people from Hollywood said that, yeah, they are.
They were sort of okay with it.
What gave it away to me that everyone hates it, like hyperbolically, is that like every
video essayist that I follow has made a video on Game of Thrones saying it's terrible.
Like usually like TLJ, for example, it was a 50 50 split with like most MCU movies.
Everyone will put out videos saying, you know what?
It was really good for this reason, not like Captain Marvel, but let's say something like
Homecoming.
A lot of people made a video for like what was special about Homecoming or something like that.
Just but no.
Not only is hardly any video essayist avoided the topic of Game of Thrones this time around,
but hardly any.
Have you even that we covered someone who's talking about it positively on the last show
and it was fucking cringe.
She was like, the darkness makes it so that those zombies are covered up so good.
Also, hang on.
Can I, I just want to quickly skip back a sec because keep in mind that number 2200.
Yeah.
Where was it?
There we go.
Use the rain.
There you go.
You got 10,000 people, Matt.
Fucking a lot of tomatoes.
Logging in to fucking say that it was shit.
That kind of trumps his bowl immediately.
These 2,000 other fuckers walking down in, you know, Hollywood or whoever.
Well, they're more, they're more right than these people.
Look, that was 2000.
There's a range of diverse people made up that 2000.
You know that this 10,000 people and run haters, all bunch of white males.
I know you don't believe that.
But shut up your ass.
Fuck off.
I don't know where I'm sorry.
I didn't, I didn't make a reference to where I skipped it back to.
I didn't want, I will just jump the fade of their favorite character.
Can we take a stab?
I feel like 10 minutes in the future of times.
I felt they end up and start polling people.
Well, according to this Hollywood reporter poll here,
the most Game of Thrones viewers actually liked the ending despite the online outrage.
Now, the reason why this is an interesting subject to cover is because I was watching
Midnight's Edge's kind of video about the future of DB Weiss and David Benioff and going into
Star Wars and if that's going to hurt more Game of Thrones shows on HBO.
And he had made a comment.
This would be Andre made a comment about how no one liked the finale.
But the poll here, this is from the Hollywood report.
It turns out that literally isn't true.
Someone out there, this man was wrong person is me.
I liked it.
So you are wrong.
You have the wrong tomatoes.
Majority of people overwhelming don't like it.
I am the IMDB majority people don't like it.
But this one poll, but it's not just that, but this is the way he emphasized it as well.
Like he's like, this is my trump card.
Here we go.
This scientific poll I found that I can't go.
Porter suggests absolutely.
Otherwise, according to this, it says in the wake of Game of Thrones finale on Sunday.
Hang on a minute.
He said absolutely otherwise.
So everyone liked it.
Is that the case?
Turns out we were wrong the whole time.
Surrounding the night was the phrase divisive.
But how did the series ending episode actually play with most viewers?
Opinions were mixed.
A new study finds some 26% of viewers who watched the final episode.
I guess it's probably a mistake.
But he said a new study finds a new survey.
A new study.
A study.
A study conducted by Nassau has concluded.
Also, what did the podcast chat said?
Haven't Mueller and Crude dismissed Rotten Tomatoes review before?
Yes.
We don't really care what they say.
But if he's going to be citing 2000 adults have said this, therefore the statement of
blah, blah, blah is wrong.
It's like maybe you should just look at the fucking Rotten Tomatoes.
It trumps yours by five times.
Here's why it's important.
Because normally you could say, okay, it doesn't matter if the majority of people
like something doesn't mean it's good.
But but Matt's the one using that argument in the first place.
Yeah, if we're specifically talking about how many people liked or disliked it,
then Rotten Tomatoes will be kind of useful to I still don't think their aggregate thing
is is useful compared to like IMDb or fucking Metacritic, even like the confusing way they do it.
So I was just gonna say, yeah, if you're one of those people who fucking pulls the
Metacritic scores to like, you know, use as an argument for or against your film or
you will have a game or ever you're an idiot.
All right, I want to read this out.
A Hollywood poll shows that the majority of people hate Monday.
Matt, despite him having subscribers.
Also, just a quick calculation that 26% of viewers, that's 572 people.
So 572 people said that they liked the final a lot.
Our Matt is fucking taking that.
And he's putting on his fucking title of his chat on this video.
And he's fucking like, there we go.
I've got the evidence.
This is it.
I've cracked it.
Actually, where's the 63% from?
Oh, so it's the 26 plus the 37.
Yeah, right.
Yeah, so 572 people said they liked it a lot.
So let's just say that they gave it like an eight out of 10 or 10 out of 10.
Yeah.
And then fit by another 37 went.
Oh, yeah, you know, I liked it.
Oh, I just love that this whole video is based on fucking server 200 people.
So well, yeah, it's so disingenuous.
And because he's such a fucking useless ship, he can't even fucking come
up with his own arguments to why it was good or bad.
He's fucking dragging in fucking 572 people to fucking say it for him.
Come on, man.
Come on.
Well, 37% liked it some.
24% didn't really like it.
And 10% didn't like it at all.
According to a new Hollywood reporter morning console poll.
The survey was comprised of 2200 adults of different ages, genders, and ethnicities
whom exhibited varying degrees of fandom and TV viewing habits.
Now granted, that is a small sample size of only 2200 people.
Okay, but yeah, no, but there's no but but no, these people do this kind of studies
and surveys quite often.
And again, I think they must know what they're talking about.
What does them having to do it often have anything to do with the number?
I don't want to drag it.
I don't drag your politics, but the polls are always right.
Am I right, guys?
The poll is right.
The numbers always reflect reality.
Like I said, people will be much more inclined to just say, Yeah, I liked it.
Even if they really didn't.
And you could say like, Oh, well, how do you know that?
How do you know it's not the reverse?
I'd be like, Oh, you know, fine.
Let's just go with talk to these people.
It'll be a much more interesting video.
If you actually went out and asked people what they thought of Game of Thrones.
I don't care to drag up any fucker else to fucking justify
why they liked or dislike something.
I don't go.
I don't even know what the point of this is.
More like the film.
So, you know, I don't have to make an argument.
It doesn't know.
Get a fucking spine.
Tell me why I can't go to YouTube and see what people think.
And that's that's not valid.
But this random survey for which I don't think there's a link
and I don't know what it's kind of call.
I'd have to search for this link because generally like if I have a survey
or something now, I'll put the whole title in the picture
so you can just type in the title and everything that's there.
But but why trust this over what my lying eyes tell me on YouTube?
All right.
Like what show Matt, tell me why this is way more valid
than everything that I've been exposed to so far.
And this poll use a range of a different ages,
genders and ethnicities.
It wasn't just all white men.
There we go. Right.
I see fear.
You might start to find that that 37 percent of liked it a bit
is probably more in line with where things are across the board.
If we were to kind of put it all together in a pot,
mix it around and then we'll extrapolate this.
And now that's your conclusion.
Great job. Fuck off.
He just wants to just push it to be like,
this is probably the most accurate.
You guys agree. Okay, cool.
Cool, cool, cool.
63 percent line.
Okay, so you guys know, no, no, no.
Yeah. So if we agree with my perspective on it,
yeah, everyone else follows this too.
Hey, man.
They specified their different ages, genders and ethnicities,
which means this is the fairest take.
And very degrees of fandom and TV view habits.
So that's like, so of these 2,201 people, not all of them.
Well, we don't even know who has read the books.
We don't even know who has watched the whole show
because I have met people who watch TV shows and don't bother.
And if they didn't start watching it from season one,
they don't go back to start it.
I have talked to people that you generally just skip ahead.
Yeah, in fairness, we were watching episode two.
No, I think it was episode one.
And like, I think I was watching it with.
Yes, I was watching it with Eamon Fortier.
And I believe they can correct me if I'm wrong here,
but I believe when when he says he's of House Tally Sam does,
I was immediately like, Oh, shit.
Because I was like, Yeah, she kills his brother and father.
And the two of them were like, Whoa, what?
What does that matter?
And you know, it's the kind of thing where it's like,
Yeah, a lot of fans aren't even aware of why season eight is so bad
because they might not even remember what information is being
contradicted. Like, you know, Jamie Lannister saying,
I never really cared about innocent people.
A lot of people might have been like, Yeah, that's fine.
Yeah, they might have literally forgotten that he lost a hand
because he didn't work because he cared about somebody other than his family.
But whatever. Yeah, this happens.
That's why when you give it time, and they're exposed to these arguments,
it gets worse.
This is it. Yeah.
Of all the people that were asked, we don't even know if like,
how much of a fuck they gave like, they literally might be somebody
who literally puts it on in the background and just go, Oh, yeah,
yeah, I thought it was cool when the dragon burns everything down.
That was cool.
Well, I actually, I found the survey and it's actually it's much worse than you think.
No, because the first question survey is do you can make it?
And oh, yeah, let me I'll put it in the thing.
Do you consider yourself a fan of the television show game of thrones?
And only 22% responded? Yes.
What?
Oh, my God is right.
That's the first question they have.
22%.
Didn't even know.
I got to get this on the screen.
That's amazing.
Oh, my God.
These people didn't even know if they like the shit.
No, so it's so when they asked the people whether they like the finale,
they weren't even asking the full 2000 people.
It was only a sample size of 314 people.
Oh, my God.
One people said they liked it a lot.
Who the fuck ran this poll?
Like, what is this?
The Hollywood reporter.
We can trust them, guys.
I love how do you know what's dumb?
I actually trusted that what he presented this thing as was 100% the way it is.
Like, I was like, well, he was a missed.
He was a missed fucking naive.
Am I like he wasn't misleading a bunch of like easy to find statistics?
No, no, no.
Oh, my God.
We probably just you probably just never clicked on the link.
He just took the articles.
What?
That's yeah, we we shouldn't assume maliciousness.
You know, can you just die already?
Oh, my.
OK, listen, this is OK.
I love the people said I don't know.
Question three.
Did you watch the Game of Thrones series finale on Sunday, May 19th?
Note that there will be potential spoilers for the show if you answer that you watched it.
All right.
37% said, no, I didn't watch it.
Yeah, only 257 people watched all of them.
Yeah, only 257 people.
So they watched all of it.
That's that's half.
Only half the people watched the last episode.
Yeah, how can you make a judgment from this?
And so, well, here, if we take question, H.R.
three and then H.R.
four, H.R.
four is did you like it?
So we have to I'm only counting.
I'm only counting.
Yes, I watched all of it, people.
So let's take the two hundred and seven.
No, let me pull out the calculator, which I don't have on the taskbar for this new computer.
Yeah.
Oh, no.
So let's take let me do the math here.
So yes, I liked it a lot.
Eighty one.
Yes, I liked it.
Some one one seven.
Well, to make it quick, he's taking 63% from three hundred and fourteen.
Plus one one seven.
All right.
So that means one hundred ninety eight.
So the seventy five,
I'm not.
Let's see.
So let's take divided by two.
This shows that seventy seven percent of the people who actually watched it
liked it.
But that's what that's including.
Yes, I liked it a lot.
And yes, I liked it some.
But there's seven with no opinion.
Seventy seven.
No, I didn't really like it at all.
And no, I didn't like it.
It's all right.
Right.
Yeah.
So of the.
So that question that H.R.
for three hundred and fourteen people were asked that question because they
were the ones who had actually watched it the whole final year.
And all that three hundred and fourteen two hundred and thirteen or two hundred
and fourteen of them said that.
Yeah.
I like some of it.
I was just going through the people who watched all of it.
So yeah, the number will be worse for you
because I didn't factor in the people who just watched some of it, which is 57.
Oh, yeah.
So that's why my number came up.
Look at the way they ask these questions.
H.R. seven underscore three.
Were any of the following major or minor reasons
why you didn't like Game of Thrones series finale?
John Snow did not become keg.
It's like a major reason.
Fifty six percent of minor reason.
It's like a whole weird way to answer these questions.
Apart from that, can we just put the bed right?
Of the sixty three percent that he's quoting, he is quoting less than three hundred people.
He is quoting less than three hundred people in his definitive of this Hollywood report suggest
he is literally picking a sample size of less than fucking four hundred people
to define his arguments.
Sample size of three hundred and fourteen.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
And just to show how fucking lazy it is at his work, a fucking.
Sorry, I'm saying fucking too much.
Now I'm going to get too pissed off.
Sitch himself pointed out in the middle of the stream.
I want to take you to search for five seconds of Google and click the article and go into the PDF.
I mean, it's in the article he's he's reading.
There's a link to it in the article.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And we've disproven it in five minutes and also for a lot longer.
H.R. eight underscore one.
Do any of the following describe how you feel about Game of Thrones series finale satisfied?
Literally forty nine percent of people said it describes how they feel about the finale.
So fifty one said no, it is basically no, I don't feel fifty one percent.
We're either unsure or unsatisfied.
It's like that's that's bad.
Yeah, that's that's really bad.
Well, it says forty seven percent of people that didn't like it didn't like it because
they thought the writing was 58 percent of people said disappointed.
Yeah, how did how does this help his argument at all?
This is the worst.
They definitely.
Yeah, when when they when it says satisfied that didn't that we just did that happy.
Only thirty six thirty six percent of people said they were happy with it.
This seems like the most roundabout way to ask people questions that I've ever seen.
Oh, in the next one after that, sad.
Forty eight percent said sad and the rest were no or I don't know.
So the highest of these basically the amount of people who are sad is the same as he felt satisfied.
And but and again, this is only from the three hundred fourteen.
So that's such a tiny little sample size.
This is completely worthless.
This look at this random question is also thrown in, dude.
As as you may know, there are several major plot lines from a Song of Ice and Fire book series
that did not make it into HBO's Game of Thrones series of the following.
Which do you think most represent?
Most wish was represented in the show.
Please select all that apply.
Young Griff slash a gone.
I'm sitting here like you can't ask these people this question.
There's people who read the books who are like,
I'm not even 100 percent sure of what you're trying to say with that question.
What I think is interesting here is that H.R.
eight underscore five to any of the following.
Describe how you feel about Game of Thrones series.
Disappointed. So if we're taking this 13 four or sorry, 314 sample size,
the biggest number that we have so far is people who felt disappointed by it.
Yeah, but let's just not talk about that.
Five. Oh, oh, my God.
We just we're about to have magic here. We're about to have magic here.
All right. H.R. eight underscore eight.
Do any of the following describe how you feel about the Game of Thrones series finale bored?
No, this doesn't describe how I feel.
Seventy one percent. They weren't even bored by it.
Hey, it wasn't the third time they watched it.
This is the biggest number that I see.
The 71 percent of people who I wasn't bored.
That's the biggest thing that we have. That's the biggest return on this.
What's the point of doing the strong fucking my entire role is going to vote no.
I know. I know. But do you want to have a do you want to have a poll or survey?
Oh, yeah. Yeah, you're right. Let's have a city has more people.
I literally will have ten times the fucking less.
She'll just ask you right now.
Can we see if we can get more than what was it? Two thousand two hundred and something.
Votes. Yeah.
If we can do that, we can if you can post into the chat.
My chat still.
I did try. I did try it, but it grays it out.
I think I'm all out of sense links.
I was first one to vote.
Give me a second.
If you could share it.
Let me go. I don't know.
All right. I can spam it.
Here goes.
Is that showing up for you guys?
There we go.
Click and vote.
Rags. Rags beat me. I'll beat you to it.
Vote in the straw poll.
Come along now.
We got our first we got our first.
There we go.
Numbers of the movie.
We got to get over two thousand two hundred people.
Fucking up. Put up on life.
Put on life.
We got two hundred votes.
Come on. We got to get up there.
We got three hundred votes.
We are. Come on.
We got four hundred.
And once this is finished, can somebody just
squeeze shot and said at the mat and just tell them to fuck off.
A new study shows.
A new study shows on the report that nine hundred and ninety percent
of the audience figure gay.
Hollywood reporters.
Yeah. Fucking professional journalists and shit posters.
They won't let me. It says Eric try again.
Yeah. Same for me right now.
This is just YouTube fucking up again.
This is the one time we need you to not fuck up YouTube.
Come on.
It's still going. I got seven hundred and fifteen.
Seven hundred fifty people now.
All right. Pearson who's listening to this.
Put it on Twitter. Put it on Twitter.
Mahler.
Pearson who's listening to this right now.
Who's not getting involved.
You need to get involved.
Okay. Just just quickly vote.
We got to get this.
If you ever did anything for eFap in your entire life.
Have it be this.
It passed two thousand two hundred.
There's apparently three thousand seven hundred people watching.
So we should be able to pull off. I'll pop it on Twitter now.
Yeah. Don't do anything.
Don't do nothing and rely on other people.
We need you. Your vote counts.
Yeah. Your vote counts.
Make Matt look like an idiot. Please.
If you don't vote then the big midgets win.
And the visions runnies. Don't forget the visions.
All right. We're at nine hundred.
I'm going to put a tweet out in a sec.
We have sixteen troll votes.
That's okay.
Sixteen people are wrong but it's okay.
I feel like fucking I feel like we're watching a submarine film.
We're just watching the meter climb down.
You know one thousand meters.
Eleven hundred meters.
I was staying out of it till that comment.
That's why I made it boy.
Okay. We've we've crossed a thousand.
We're at a thousand fifty.
Oh. Nineteen people are wrong.
Nineteen people. Nineteen people missed the no button.
That's all right. It's bound to happen.
Bound to happen.
I'm pretty sure I did tick the IP checker.
So I think if you want to vote again you'll have to VPN it.
I think. Or maybe you don't have to.
This is a scientific poll.
Yes. We can't skew the results.
Smile please. You're science men.
I'm sorry. I forgot. I'm not wearing my lab coat and my tie.
My glasses on. So they're thick enough to be safety goggles.
So. American.
Should we watch the rest of it?
Yeah. Let's go to the let's.
We'll have to. Yeah. We'll have to push this in a bit.
When we maybe cycles. I want to show you guys.
Come back. We'll come back.
Yeah. I'll put it in chat every once in a while.
Here we go.
It was already founded.
Yeah. So this is the tweet I did. Do you like my hashtags?
Hashtag jarbo survey surveys for the win jarbo surveys.
There you go people. This is my tweet for it.
You can find it and we will get this past two thousand two hundred. That's all we got to do.
I'm sure all of you are various ages genders made up words and other things.
So. But we will get our diversity quota. We will.
We will have to return to this once. Hopefully it gets a little bit further.
But thank you Matt for inspiring us to really show the world that there is more to surveys than
than nothing. Monday. Matt really is an inspiration.
He gets get shit done dude. He gets you know he's.
He's my anger therapy right now.
He showed Monday. Matt is just look man he teaches us don't do it for the money or the fame
or for the audience. Do it because you love it.
Do it for some reason.
Question becomes whether or not the backlash to the show to the finale will have any any.
Hang on. Oh yeah. Sorry. This is a bit of a dip pic. The survey was comprised of two thousand two
hundred and one adults of different ages. Like so.
They weren't all the same age. I just I find it amusing to be like adults of different ages.
It's like what adults. We're assuming they're all the exact same age.
We tried to get all thirty seven year olds.
Any problem or any impact on the future of whether or not these people go and watch
a Dan and Dave Star Wars movie. Well according to this they also ask them that if they would
continue to watch the work of David Benioff and D.B. Weiss some responders were asked does the
involvement of the creators of HBO series Game of Thrones make you more or less likely to see
upcoming Star Wars movies installment or does it make no difference at all.
Nine percent said that they were more likely and seven percent said that they were less likely
meaning that in this poll people. Why the fuck are you talking about this thing specifically like.
This is a really interesting thing. What's the sample size for the question he asked.
Should we find this one. The game here. Let me just F Star Wars.
Yeah. David. OK. Here we go. So more like. So this was only which HR isn't.
It looks like this was looks like this was the entire sample size of 2000.
Yeah it's H.R. 15. OK. So H.R. 15 because you can control that search for Star Wars.
Fucking idiots. Jesus Christ. Teach all the Internet.
Sixty nine percent of people said they didn't fucking give a shit really.
I was going to their names or well control after their names.
And what's weird is don't know or no opinion is like almost more likely less likely.
Oh yeah. Yeah. Fifteen hundred people has basically said I don't give a shit.
And then another three hundred. I don't even know who these people are.
Oh. Get ready. Get set. We're going on the Internet.
Tended to like the work of Dan and Dave more so than not by at least two percent.
However 69 percent of the responders answers that the finale makes no difference to them
for the duo Star Wars future indicating that the writers will move forward.
If you actually read the study you know that's because 69 percent of those people didn't see the
game. Oh my God. And what a question. You know if I said to like the people I watched it with
like family members and stuff I said does the involvement of the creators of the HBO series
Game of Thrones make you more or less likely to see the upcoming Star Wars movie installment.
I imagine most of my family have been like I don't really care.
People don't typically care that much like critics do because we're really invested in
stories being not terrible. But your average movie go over like they're working on it.
Okay. Well I don't know. Yeah. And like what tends to happen is they manipulated like
mortal engines where they were like oh from the from the creators of Lord of the Rings.
It's like yeah. Peter Jackson might produce that he didn't direct it. But yeah. Because
that really was shit. Well yeah. And that's it. That they were misleading when they because
they were going. Oh look here Jackson's name right on the front. Peter Jackson.
Oh he's pretty good. Nope. Exactly. It's like for the average audience. Yeah like
they might be familiar with certain directors but they're not going to be familiar with these
writers. They're Peter Jackson. I mean I mean she'll run. I mean shit like I've seen it in
the discord itself when people refer to them as D&D people have to clarify who are D&D. If people
on the Internet don't know who D&D are like just by word of mouth or you know casual interaction.
The fucking normies on the street in Hollywood. They're not going to know. A lot of people
at first were like Dungeons and Dragons. It's like no no no no D&D like Dungeons and Dragons.
Like no no no David and whatever else. And you're like what. And it's only because of all this
fucking terrible shit that's happened to Game of Thrones and people finally started to move over
into like some people were like you mean Dungeons and Dragons. Like no no no no not at all. And
you're like oh right no of course. So yeah the average people have no fucking clue who they are.
They probably don't even know who to blame exactly like random people. They probably
moved on to a different fucking show already. Yes you know. Being judged on their current
projects rather than their past work which I do believe ultimately is the best course of action.
When you want to look at Game of Thrones in the future of Dan and Dave and what they're doing
I would say take it on a project to project basis with something. What did they do that
was good. I don't always do but I do feel that is the best X-Men origins. Yes.
What's interesting too is that I've been tracing around this survey.
Six percent of the people who answered this survey. Not a fan of TV.
11 percent of them not a fan of movies. Yeah so I mean I mean I mean the poll was definitely
open-minded and who asked. 42 percent of people not subscribed to HBO.
Oh my goodness. Four percent never even heard of HBO.
Some of these people had never even read or watched this show. So.
How do you ironically run this test like as if it's gonna tell you anything.
It's amazing. Like did he did he like say that like these guys were good at their polls like
they know they're doing well he led he led into this like he led into this like you know with
like you know a faulty that you know these people have like you know they've done their work
like you know it is I don't think he said well yeah he didn't say definitively anything that he
is just how he said it I suppose. Of course of action. So here you have it.
New studies new surveys majority of people enjoyed the finale. You cannot say that.
So let's let's let's give him the lettuce steel steel lettuce valerian steel man his argument
all right. Let's say that 63 percent of people enjoyed it. That is awful.
I'm waiting. That's terrible. I'm waiting for you to be like. Giving him the best possible
interpretation of the data which we know is bullshit. Even that means that they failed really
bad. Yeah we're still talking about 200 people 200 fucking people who. Yeah with how like more
and more shit's getting revealed about the way they did this test I'm waiting for you to finally
be like five percent of the people asked weren't human. Are you human. I do not know.
No you don't know. Well that's it of the 340 percent of the 340 level it said so
some of them may not even have TVs it's not confirmed. It was too dark on my phone
for what it was or at least liked it some more so than didn't like it at all or outright hated it.
It just goes to show you that fan backlash. That's the bar pretty fucking low.
Absolutely. It's actually three percent that's like a D. That's terrible.
If you make a you make a YouTube video and three percent of your audience liked it.
You done fucked up somewhere. Something went catastrophically horribly wrong.
You see the super challenge just came in. Hey guys sorry miss the last three. My
father was waiting for an organ donation but the donor had his hand broken and his motorcycle stolen.
What villain fucking wrecked that bad. Yeah I was gonna say um uh fuck shit hang on.
It's lost me. Oh yeah and this is it the poll is not regarding the season well it's not regarding
the pilot episode of the show so like you know people like I don't know I thought it was all
right. Everyone who watched the season for the last episode are fans right. Nobody unless they
like you've got a spouse or whatever who's been dragged along to watch it nobody's watching this
because they are not interested. So the poll the poll the poll is even worse off because it's asking
people who don't even give a shit about HBO and he's still using it like the fucking well face
his argument that you know maybe the internet was wrong maybe they're all just a bunch of you know
masses. Hello fuck me. I don't know. The famous part is in the article you don't even have to
click the link to see the study like at the bottom of the article it literally shows the first
question of the study. No but such we're literally doing more work than Matt did in his video.
Yeah I mean he sat in front of his webcam. He put his camera on man he fucking he had to click a
button for that probably I don't know. His video took it's a seven minute 13 second video it took
him seven minutes and 13 seconds to make this video. He put he put a good almost 10-ish minutes
into making this video. Yep. The first response on Twitter for the survey is I love democracy.
We're on uh we're at uh we're at 1750 it looks like. When he was listening and unaware you need
to vote on this important poll survey to decide the public's view a unbiased public view of Game
of Thrones finale. We need to know uh preferably people who have any idea of what Game of Thrones
even is and have seen the show but it's not necessary that's not necessary at all you can
still vote. Yeah do me a favor if you did like it don't vote just. Even if you haven't seen the show
fuck it you're just as informed as the people from the survey. Stop it. If you have a TV you're
probably more informed than some of them. If you're a suspiciously large amount of women don't vote.
It's a big tell of something something shady's going on. I need a few more females. I mean
somebody in Discord did say that they're trans so I did thank them for their contribution to enriching
the poll. Oh yeah they have instantly made my argument much more stronger because somebody
else has said so or agree to me. One trans person sounds suspicious. Are there any dwarves in chat?
We can only have one. Do we have any preferably giant dwarves?
Any robots that want to be human. Any trans robots. Who's who's the biggest freaking freak please
come on board now. I don't care if you got no limbs you got no fucking I don't know you got
I don't know fucking anuses for eyelids I don't give a shit come on vote.
Come on now. It just goes to show you that fan backlash doesn't necessarily mean
that it's all fan it that it does speak for everybody in some. Oh no shit yeah.
Despite how shit the show is people are still allowed to have their opinions about every.
Yeah some people can like yeah there's some people they're like it some people are brain
dead and they think it's good it's all right. I don't think you could have made an episode
that nobody would have liked. I honestly think that's practically impossible. There's always
some guy who's like yeah when you've always got those weird postmodernists who are like fucking
everything is amazing if you look at it in a fucking lens of a fucking ant on a mountain.
Like if it opened all the characters were just in a room and they all got they melted
and then the credits rolled there would be someone out there was like oh my god you get it.
It's like a commentary on how everybody like none of it mattered everybody was just a candle in the
wind and they melted under the heat of the no I got nothing. The whole episode could have literally
been D&D in a white room shitting on the floor flicking off the audience. Don't just be like genius.
It's just so much meaning.
But it was supposed to be terrible definite definite situations where the fan
outright does have an impact and that obviously is clear with let's say The Last Jedi or Ghostbusters.
You know obviously it had no impact on Captain Marvel you have to take it on a case by case.
What do you mean it obviously had no impact on Captain Marvel?
People fucking hate Captain.
I fucking hate the argument the Captain Marvel made money therefore it never could have made
more money than it did.
Well also didn't wasn't there a rumor that they had two different cuts of infinity
of endgame and one had more Captain Marvel one and less?
And if we got the one with more in it I'd be fucking surprised.
No we definitely got the one with less because they literally have her say in the movie.
I must go now.
Yeah yeah.
I must go now and we were like good we will see you hopefully later much much much later.
Preferably never.
I was just gonna say I've heard this before so you go oh fan fan backlash didn't work on
Captain Marvel because Captain Marvel was still made over a billion dollars and I'm just like
imagine how much it could have made if everyone loved it.
Imagine how ready people get to see the next one.
Yeah exactly.
I mean it's not like people are gonna buy a ticket to Captain Marvel and then walk out
halfway through the movie and say I want my money bro.
I think my dad almost did though.
I hated that.
I keep torrid about always wanting to walk out watching so much shit in nowadays but
I've still not done it.
Yeah no still not done it.
I almost walked out of where the wild things are.
I honestly actually did.
I was smart enough not to go see that.
Yeah we're getting there guys.
We're talking like first 10 minutes I actually wanted to like leave.
Well yeah man the fucking well at least in the UK they're like you know they don't even
got to the ads yet the ads.
Oh no chat stop moving on OBS I hope it's still going.
We gotta get this we're so close to getting this poll to where it needs to be.
Well with 40 votes away from 2000.
40 heroes come on 40 heroes.
I know there's a whole bunch of people who are like playing a video game like I'm not
going to vote.
I don't need to.
You need to need to vote.
All of you need to vote and tell whatever game you're playing.
Tell everyone in your server that you need to go into this.
Nothing matters more than this.
Even though it's too stupid to not mention his Game of Thrones in the title you know
just just confuse them just ask them.
Yeah just say like did you like the season eight finale of Cheers.
Fucking just ask asking your server and then report back to us.
I always see the name finale of what it's like it doesn't matter just add to the poll.
I always regret I kind of wish I put better options in it at this point.
What like what.
Oh you know it's like oh well you know like compared it to.
Yes no turnip.
Well no no no I mean like made it more like Hollywood reporters.
Oh yes I liked it no I didn't like it or yeah I like some of it whatever you know.
I did not watch it.
I don't know what a TV is.
Just so that if I made it like you're completely on same even terms as Matt is trying to argue
whether or not this was good or bad I would use that and then just go you know boom it's a
this is way funnier.
I mean I'm fucking dying over here but fuck it.
Good old everyone keep keep please keep oh hey we got 2077.
New there new there.
Maybe we'll finish Matt's video and then it'll be complete.
There are those kind of things to take into account here.
Now listen if you didn't like Game of Thrones series that's entirely fine.
Oh I did you don't we can discuss it.
But if you dare bring up a fucking poll to argue with me I would fucking go.
We've our poll is almost finished cooking we can count to his without.
Eddie fucking Hollywood reporting journalist bollocks man fucking died.
Oh shit we're like 100 away.
Yeah that's when he was entitled to their own opinions what I find to be fascinating about
this is ultimately that a lot of people out there are trying to run on the hyperbole
that everyone loved it or everyone well no one's saying everyone loved it but yeah don't say that.
Yeah no yeah people aren't even gonna make that hyperbolic statement.
No reality has been twisted that bad yeah.
So guys like everyone loved it he just looks around he's like okay no okay.
Okay everyone hated it when we can see here that that's simply not the case and so
it is just kind of a case study.
You made a whole video to say that not everyone hates Game of Thrones season eight.
And he wasn't even right.
Wasn't even right.
Well yeah this is how to respond to these things down the road to how to look at these types.
Isn't he making like some of like three videos a day like yeah if you shit them out this quick.
Yeah this is no shock I'm not surprised one bit this is the kind of quality of it like where we
as I mentioned earlier like we three buck theater we unraveled it's like three second theater he
just fucking goes really reads the title yep oh you know Game of Thrones can be good might be bad
don't know 200 people see you next time buddy so in the last um so in the last day
one two three four five six seven there are seven videos that say a day ago or sooner.
Damn the most popular one is at two point five thousand views his first.
So let me go to his main channel Matt Jarbo best surname ever.
Uh one so he made a video 18 hours about Pokemon themed weddings in Japan
and one two one two three four no he six he didn't make a main channel video until six
days ago and he made like three or four or five of them.
The Hollywood reporters size was 2201 hours is 2217 and counting we did it guys we did it.
Yeah and also I know some people in chat have pointed out that
obviously this is very biased based on who we're asking.
This is entirely scientific multi-gendered multi-species poll.
We confirmed a giant dwarf there was a trans there was a female there's loads in the chat.
So I break with the four four guys I did it for fun this is oh no.
Oh all righty well I have screen shotted the whole at two thousand two hundred twenty
cents at Matt Jarbo.
Could somebody please correct the title so.
So according to this new poll from efap.com it looks like eighty five percent of people
did not like the season eight finale and 12 percent were not happy to answer the question.
I want to make this video just going to make a pause this get the big old pauses.
Going to Monday Matt's channel I'm trying to find a video that has breached the 75 the magic 75
number percent upvote number I have yet to find one and right now I'm at two months ago.
So you're going to get worse the further back you go because you'll find that the dark time
where he dark.
Yeah.
Finally a hate crime gets punted let me see yeah I can't I legit can't actually find any
I got a sixty eight percent here that was three months ago they both hate him why does
he keep doing this because he has things to say oh here we go seventy nine percent.
It's a it's a very very this is one of his more popular videos at eight thousand views
but he got a seventy nine percent on it so that's pretty pretty fucking impressive.
Code and to see that maybe not everyone feels the same way but my my point on this one is
is there a potential way to come to a middle ground perspective and have a conversation about
what was good what was bad without it turning into a tribalistic situation. Let's examine that.
So is if just because so this isn't about tribes right this is about there are all sorts of people
of all sorts of different races nationalities genders whatever is blah blah blah hate it same
thing a lot of people loved it a lot of people hated it right we can talk about it right we can
talk about it that doesn't mean that we have to give up what we think to talk about it like we
don't have to abandon the reasons that we have if we have to abandon reasons that we have for why
it's terrible just to meet people in the middle and talk about it that's not a good faith conversation
that we're having no and it's not fucking it's not like it isn't that this is an actual war
feud or conflict coming over this this is literally just people on the internet
getting bitchy about it or getting well against all you're getting happy or whatever
and yeah business as usual basically well we don't have to diffuse or meet on mutual terms
or something like that you know like you know like a fucking we don't have to fucking call an
armistice matt it's fucking just the season finale was shit well the season itself is shit
some disagree you pick like the fucking smallest minority or not smallest minority smallest
fucking uh grouping ever to go oh yeah no actually you know maybe the internet's wrong on this and
you're just they're fucking flip flopping on the issue at the end great great it's like how about
you just go in with what you believe and then through the discussion you find out who's the
most correct or who can justify their position the best and that will influence what people think
about it that's how discussions work and you know what to prove that i was was unbiased
we even had people voting yes so how could it be biased if people voted yes flawless argument in
fact i would say that everyone voted yes yes that's one that's another that was another vote
right there that's another one and i feel that in the case of the internet that's kind of woefully
impossible but that's this is of course this is coming from the lens of monday matt so
it's like i've had i've had great luck with that myself i think it works wonderful but i'm not
monday matt again my thoughts what are yours let me know down in the comments below how we
did you went better we don't need to listen to that but yeah man you're not fucking help with
the conversation you're not helping the conversation either last video we watched i don't know which one
came first or which one came out in which order it was this one was after the previous right right
you blame george you blame the fucking author for the show and your and your what's that is that
helping the conversation is it's like not creating tribes or like you know more divinity division
between people did he defend the show in the last video or he just said blame george he said it was
he said that ultimately it was george rr martin's fault yeah so he wasn't even saying it was good he
was just saying it was george well interestingly he said if you think it's bad you have george to
blame and then he went on to say that lots of it was good so my account was like so do you think
it's george's work that's why it's good because what does dnd have to do with this shitty content
creator who can't formulate his ideas in a clear and concise manner and give them to an audience
that would that's ridiculous this is only a hypo thesis but let's do a study let's do a study
yeah an extensive nasa study okay but i'm glad we got the conclusion um everyone hated game of
thrones season eight everyone every single person and you can quote me on that and maybe one day
matt'll make a video saying i was wrong to say such a thing you'll have to reference my study
below and i'll talk to you guys later have yourself a great day and peace out hey thank
you so much for watching the video oh i thought you were gone no subscribe if you're
leave my dream seriously somebody's gotta have the fucking mouse over the fucking pause button ready
i can't take it um so at this point i think are we at four i have no idea how long we've been
streaming because four hours says started streaming four hours ago we started my time we
started 540 and it's currently 10 so we've been going so it's been about four hours 20 minutes
since we started i think assuming i'm allowed to by youtube is time to start reading the old super
chats because that's that was a shit ton of fun getting through those three years
what are the crimes against youtube
i was gonna say are you gonna well you want to start now with the super chats
uh well unless there's anything anyone wants to talk about uh no i'm just gonna i'm gonna bow out
uh work tomorrow oh sure yeah but yeah it's been great guys um i'm i gotta calm down for
a bit now because i'm like my blood pressure's gone through the roof watching matt but it's
been fun and it's nice talking to you or talking to you all rather but yeah and you will make
content eventually that i can promote right yes one day i i i will show up more and uh yeah we
have too many guests on efel that are like that we're like freaky make some content he's just like
no i've never done it i've never done it before so like you know i can you have an excuse you know
i can i can give you a bunch of old japanese game developer proverbs about rush projects
but you know um so this is awkward i can't access the super chat's part of youtube right now
oh fuck like every time i do it it disables it and so something's gone wrong take care of the way
guys uh um huh the you can't go to the community monetization no every time i do it says sorry
something went wrong it's got a stupid monkey you know it should show up later um hmm yeah well
so i was i was gonna say one solution is that we have a chat for a little bit then we stop and
then i i stream at some point maybe tomorrow maybe with rags and we just go through the super
chats then i'll be around and we'll just i'll put it up on on the moolah channel as a sort of uh
bonus video because get your own special episode with uh we will have special content there
that you can only get on the super chat episodes we're gonna have an efap super chat it'll be
color coded i'm not gonna make him do that that guy's already done so much um yeah i mean do you
want to we could just chat for a bit about whatever um how's life on youtube uh everyone
how's it going there you go see like you mean us or chat again i guess you guys are fishing
that'll be an interesting thing stitch how did you get started on youtube tell your story
and that's boring you don't hear that story i don't fucking hear it go i have a question okay
because i didn't i never saw your your end game video because you made it before i saw the movie
i mean did you didn't you do uh uh infinity war he did one for an infinity war oh you haven't
talked about end game we did a podcast we did an efap yeah that's what i meant oh okay yeah um did
you did you like it because i felt like it was it had a pretty big structural problem in it compared
to the first avengers the fit in that you mean compared to infinity war or literally the first
into the infinity war because i thought infinity war was better than end game
objectively speaking like uh structurally inconsistently yeah yeah because if i don't
i felt like it was it was they it was a poor decision because they go back in time and they
get all the stones and then it's like okay well they solve the problem they solve the conflict
of the movie they bring everyone back to life and it's like oh but then also thana shows up at the
end and you got to fight them again yeah it's like shouldn't the conflict have been no no thanos
goes back in time and gets the stones and you have to defeat him to solve the conflict of the
original movie i think it was a missed opportunity to not have them fight modern thanos because he
was so much more interesting than younger thanos and it's mainly because not only is i i way prefer
the attitude of modern thanos if you call him that but i also like the connection he has to
the avengers at that point um and again it's not like i hated what we got i just like i i was like
oh man better i would really kind of been better i fucking love every piece of dialogue that comes
out of uh old or old modern thanos it felt like they made the new thanos he was like just evil
he kind of lost the depth of his character well he certainly he became indefensible when he said
okay you guys are always going to screw it up i'm just going to nuke the universe and start
from scratch it's like wow okay well it's like oh we have to raise the stakes because they already
solved the problem hmm so they have to go like one step further okay he's just going to destroy
everything there's a there's a lot of structural issues but uh i i adored so many of the payoffs
in that movie um fucking it was good using that damn hammer man like apparently that got like the
biggest response from theaters overalls at average i was like yeah that makes sense
like fucking fan service for the win then again i mean it makes sense the captain marvel uh actress
said that she thinks captain marvel could pick up thor's hammer yeah um not if she treats
human beings the way she does sorry right who said that nope brie larson said that right
brie larson said that yeah is that confirmed because if so that's like no that's probably
her just saying i don't think they can confirm it because in the continuity we've got now
neol nears destroyed so we're not gonna she's not gonna have a chance to i hope in the head
just fucking hope they don't do it just just let it she's not how is she it's like you gotta be
worthy it's like how the fuck is she really you know how is she as worthy morally than captain
america yeah that ain't that ain't happening how are they even going to make a sequel with her
because she's so powerful i'm dude i'll be there i'll be there i'll watch it when it comes out
because i'm fascinated by the idea of making a movie where they're like oh right opening of the
movie she gets shot in the face with some kind of thing and it just loses all her powers oh no and
then she has to live that her power isn't here and she's more than her power and just be like yeah
you should have done this in the first movie but okay because where else can they go other than
her just destroying everything again like i'd actually like it if they went villain mode with
her but i don't think she'd like it no way no way people saying that for ray too they're like oh
they're gonna totally make ray the villain yeah right come on when she's choosing whether or not
to join kylo i remember watching it be like why would she yeah why first off why is she even here
at all but also why would she swap sides like the idea that is so tensionful whether or not she'll
do it i just want to ask people it's like what reason would she have to do that it's like uh and
the war it's like no that's not even going to happen like the people fighting regardless like
they were going to leave who knows what the first order we're going to do was kylo and ray fuck off
or what even was the plan we shouldn't talk about stars that's all fucking rabbit hole
god that star wars season will be coming back around we're currently still in sort of the end
of marble season and gabith roads it's like uh why are we talking about marvel movies star wars
is coming out to me we're talking about star wars uh uh something's coming out soon there is that
another thing is going to come out in the future a boy who got bitten by a radioactive uh spider who
became a trans spider i believe that's a pretty cool oh arachno boy arach arachid it was really
poorly named um yeah you know it means we may as well do it uh right now because no better time
than ever do you want to talk a bit about your channel in general so i can promote you and tell
people to subscribe uh i started off for some reason making political content which was probably a
mistake in the long run it worked out for some people it worked out for so i feel like i feel
like this is the way like you you do successful in in politics you have to pick a side you have
to say okay i'm firmly on the left or the right i don't think people want this wishy-washy moderate bs
but that's just my i think it's less left to right and more like social justice anti-social
justice well i think a lot of people don't like people being wishy about wishy-washy about that
i think it started that way and i think it's kind of slowly like
maybe it's just me but it feels like people are getting kind of bored of like anti-sjw stuff
like okay we've heard you know all the arguments a million times about yeah i think anti-sjw is
rising right now yeah um and there's a lot of channels that make it very easy because they're
like i watched i'm not talking about anyone specific here okay you may think i am but i'm
not i watched a movie where a guy has a gem in his head and he had it pulled out because
it's a magic stone and i i could see the trans element to that you're like okay you're suspiciously
too many women they had a dwarf you're like okay dude like this is too much and then you get people
who could make channels just very easily being able to cover that shit so like yeah yeah just
like a formula you just stamp it out okay so yeah i was doing i've been doing politics videos for
almost every almost all my videos have been politics anti-sjw stuff and then i was so upset
so upset like everyone else by the direction game of thrones that i made a game of thrones video
and did very well so i'm like okay this is good sign i can start going back and forth between
movies television and politics and not just be solely focused on anti-sjw stuff yeah and uh i
think you've made some very interesting game of thrones do you know i was uh i was building a
little um little play house for my sister's daughters and i was listening to your video
oh just like an unicorn store and i told no one to come out while i was using this like
you might swear on this game of thrones spoilers just go away listen to this video while i'm
building a house and uh yeah uh you you have some you have some solid takes and you you you
weren't a huge fan of season eight i i think that's a fair take but did you know that 63 percent of
people actually enjoyed it like i'm just happy because i've i've been really sad when i came
with thrones for a while i'm just i'm happy to see like everyone else wake up like it got to a point
that even the normies were like ugh can't deal with it but 63 percent yeah stop saying that like
like that's true it's only 30 fucking seven people that didn't like it percent it's just
jesus 63 liked it 30 of those 63 didn't have eyes but it's okay they still listen to game of thrones
we're not humanoid but that doesn't get connected 37 percent of household pets enjoyed the end of
game of thrones but uh yeah there's a link to your your channel at the top of the description
go and check it out if you want to you want to see some more takes on game of thrones while you're
waiting for mine because i know that people are still very upset that uh i haven't released my
videos for five and six yet i'm writing the one for five it's taking me ages to perfectly explain
to you why it's really bad that they've destroyed denirus virus tyrian john gamey these are the
characters i really care about so i'm trying to make sure it's it's it's a entertaining and
informative video while nailing everything that's wrong with a fucking episode and then it's on to
six and then it's on to a season sort of recap thing and then i'm going back to tfa because
everyone keeps asking me oh is tfa part three coming out soon and i'm like no really not soon
we're every single time i haven't started it we're looking at at least a month still
and i know that that upsets people but i'm working on what i really want to work on fist and then
going back to there's no way it won't be done there's this rumor going around it's like mul
will never finish it it's like do you understand how long it took me to write that script for the
entirety of the tfa thing there's no way i'm not making those videos um they're coming though and
the good news is rags has a video coming out tomorrow tomorrow i'm hoping tomorrow yeah
all you got to do is finish up really just the ending bit of it uh just like like the outro
essentially and yeah then we'll be good to go and i got some stuff that i
do want to cover like i really do want to make videos on and cover and i think those those are
fairly shorter and their response videos you're going to come out you're going to
come out here we come today right i fucking am we were worried that you were going to become
the george r martin of youtuber george r martin everything's my fault no just the the long time
in between yeah yeah yeah um but yeah i think things have like really really calmed down uh
in the irl scene so you can devote all the time to it and get everything trucking along which is
what i really want to happen because stuff comes out and i want to cover it i'm like uh it just
takes time to make this i don't i don't just matt jarbo it and sit in front of my fucking webcam
and chat for seven minutes to make a seven minute video and you're some sex he was right
i'm upset he had sources showed me he had he showed me the truth about how people feel the
nasa study you're objectively wrong didn't take it you just hate women um but yeah assuming youtube
fixes itself i will try and stream with maybe rags maybe wolf maybe whatever uh at the very
least myself going through the uh the super chest to make sure everybody gets answered so it'll be
on the moolah channel right so if anyone's like i wanted answered it'll be answered eventually
on the moolah channel give a couple days you can find this there as well uh there's a link in the
chat to get to it um thank you all for voting on that poll for making sure that studies stay
strong and that surveys are trusted because it really proved definitively uh the truth
and um yeah uh next episode wolf will be back and we'll finally be able to look at some memes
because it's been a while uh we'll open with that yeah it's been a while since we went over memes
i feel feels bad man we'll we'll definitely be doing that we need a meme episode um but it's
been fucking fun and thank you all very much for watching it's all coming up on the moolah channel
and uh thank you very much for being an awesome guest mr sitch that's right thank you um other
than that is anyone anyone oh um bowen bowen's got art bowen said he has art what bowen he's
saying check twitter bowen yes fucking bowen said i was i was so excited i was so excited
i didn't even i'm checking my twitter i am not seeing anything so far um resend it bowen
bowen uh is he just said tell mauler to check twitter um
i've got um i've got a couple dawn memes but i'll save them for when we get wolf back
oh i haven't seen you i'm not seeing while you're waiting for mauler's videos just watch my game
of thrones video they're they're actually good i really like them yeah i i'm glad you're actually
good they're actually glad they're good they're actually good they're actually good they're not
they're not shit like we're not just saying it because we like the guy we're saying it because
the videos are good how about that yeah there you go that's that's the best endorsement i could
hope for yay fucking wolf just pied me bowen it's okay right first off i'm sorry i for starters
showed up but two i was so excited that i became less lucid for that little bitty moment that tiny
window of time where my brain was processing the joy of things to come and with bayou and
who knows that fucking cool that wolf's gonna have to remember that so you can call you out
beginning the episode next time why when he shows up maybe when he's around maybe the show
i'm still i'm refreshing my twitter i'm not seeing anything i'm sorry i i bowen
feel bad say that bayou and if there's something you wish for me to to put on screen like a
drowaring yes bayou and you must send it fucking nude ralting retweeted my my thing and he put
hashtag i stab with dawd and hashtag jumbo surveys for the win the toxic brood groves
uh as bayou and said anything else or um i i don't think so let me check twitter you piece of shit
send my art i yeah so i guess he's having problems with twitter oh do you want to try the discord if
twitter's fucking up um yeah if if you post it if it's postable if is it safe for word
oh could be why technical here post it just deem it to me but bayou and if you my dms are open
on discord if you just send it to me then i'll pass it along
almost finished with a meeting 10 0 3 oh that was 15 minutes ago okay
uh oh i hope this is good we've been hanging on at the very end
that meme and ironically will follow him to his grave
oh he just kind of forgot anything because i would have just fably will use it on him
every once in a while oh my god you just kind of forgot how to be a good husband
oh my god he could put on his tombstone he kind of forgot how to be alive
all right i gotta bail with me
take it already i'm not even gonna inspect it until i send it to you guys oh boy oh my
god is smiling is harassment oh he's got it oh god oh there's er on there yeah i like that
that's a good-looking godzilla it is captain marvel godzilla bottomless too happy time toys
cove stop objectifying that godzilla with your eyes that actually looks really cool smiling is
harassment no wonder yeah i was gonna say fucking eos fucked he's constantly smiling
sitches okay unless you flip your icon upside down you fuck i'm always sad i mean after game
of thrones i don't blame you that's true it's all over um yeah with that i'd say it's about time we
say goodbye to you all uh you can expect the next one is hopefully going to be next sunday
we're we're actually on a partial consistent schedule right now which is neat and uh you can
expect the return of wolf and god knows who next for a guest because because you just you never
fucking know this shit so matt you're gonna have mundane matter monday matt the special guest on
um efap we're gonna talk about game of thrones no please we're gonna talk about science data no
uh great thank you for your generous donations you'll see a video for it uh after this one on
the channel um thank you for watching thank you despite all the stupid shit that happened with
youtube hope you had fun thank you for being such a long-term guest as well sitch uh and rags
appearing for his uh 37th time it's ish it's all been very fantastic but we will see you next time
to the pimp agerio to the pimp
that's the sheet you must say goodbye
