Like make it a Dr.
Moreau type thing.
Maybe the doctor, the old guy goes nuts.
And then he's like, oh, I can.
I can make a park with the dinosaur human.
I can't wait for the third Jurassic World movie
where they still go with this idiotic premise
that using dinosaurs for the military is a good idea.
Oh, my God.
It's like you'd think after the first movie,
they would have got a clue, but they were like, no, no.
We have to make the dinosaurs into military people.
Oh, stupid.
Oh, my God, Jeff.
And oh, oh, my God, what's his name?
Vincent D'Onofrio playing that good old boy fat redneck fucker
trying to sell the shit like, oh, what, what do you say?
Struggle breeds greatness.
And yeah, we can put laser beams on dinosaurs.
And shit. Oh, my God.
I don't get the fear of this shit like he's so stupid.
The stupid second movie where the dude has the gun
with the laser pointer on it and he points it at a thing.
And it's like, why don't you just shoot the thing with the gun
instead of sending the velociraptor to kill the thing?
It's so stupid.
This is Jurassic Land and bullets magically are repelled by dinosaur skin.
I mean, they could have done it like put a chip inside the dinosaurs brain
and like give them orders.
Didn't it like die by getting impaled on like really ancient
30,000 year old bones?
What are we what are we talking about?
The death by the winner.
Dom, whatever the stupid name for the stupid like Carl Weird Raptor is
in the second Jurassic World, how it died.
Oh, yeah. Dom is in domino.
This abominable race in the raptor and the raptor.
That's what it was called.
Didn't it like they had to kill it by like throwing it down.
Which is what the French called Vietnam.
Oh, at the Battle of the Unbound Fool.
So it's going to be weird.
So it will be a sudden update.
Whenever that happens, everything gets fucked.
So like chat is not on screen because for no reason.
It's also no reason.
Dreaming the wrong.
Everything is wrong right now.
It's it's got the right title and description, but for some reason
it's got the wrong thumbnail.
I don't know how that happened.
I haven't seen you use that thumbnail in a long time, too.
But like I didn't upload.
I've not uploaded that thumbnail for like a million years.
So I don't know what the hell it's doing.
Is it on like the wrong profile?
Looks like it's on my profile.
But what is fixed?
You get the yeah, I've seen it on the recommended and the home page.
And it shows we're live.
Does it show the correct thumbnail?
Yes. OK, well, but I'm still it shows the screen that we're seeing right now.
Yeah, it shouldn't show that.
What is it doing?
It's fucking tisming.
Lying to me.
I'm curious to find out if something else has happened.
Oh, maybe it's streaming through the wrong thing, maybe.
OK, so it can't be that account.
It's not a Mueller account.
It's definitely more of some reason.
It doesn't want to listen to the hospital.
You can go through this stupid.
Right. Why would you make half a joke and then give up Rex?
Come on, because I think I think halfway through, I knew that was one.
I mean, sometimes it's best to go down with a ship.
Wait, so Shinobi said that the bones that the Indoraptor impaled itself on
weren't real bones.
They were stronger bones.
And that's why it was able to kill the Indoraptor.
So OK. OK.
Oh, OK. Yeah.
I mean, I'm not saying that your opinion doesn't matter
if you like the Jurassic World movies, but.
Oh, does he?
Is that one of his things?
Is that his?
Well, you were the one that watched it, weren't you?
Like the the puppet guy who screamed.
I remember the puppet guy.
I want to say that we didn't like make it through
almost the majority of it because something else happened
because I know like of his video, but I don't really remember his video.
If you're picking up when I'm laying down, I can't change the thumbnail.
It won't let me.
Like, I got shot on screen at least.
But are you subscribed to YouTube Red?
No. Does that have to do with anything?
Well, I don't know.
Maybe that's their new thing is that you have to be subscribed to YouTube Red.
I'm almost certain this is to do with OBS because it never before
is it asked me before I started streaming?
What would you like to title your stream?
It's like I've got the title.
I've subscribed to OBS Red.
Controversial.
There is no OBS Red.
I'll kill you.
Go to live.
Is it in the live control room now?
Is that what we're doing, YouTube?
Are you forcing me here?
The dead room.
It is.
Please tell me I'm not the only one who has to deal with this tism.
Well, I have a dream.
So I don't have to deal with it.
I haven't done a new stream since a while, so.
Oh, God, so many weird options.
They scare me.
I'm too old for this.
Excellent.
Where's the option to do a thumbnail?
Just give me the fucking option for a thumbnail.
I will hurt you.
Change thumbnail.
There we go.
YouTube, you musty bit.
Anybody who's listening to this is like, what happened?
I'm not doing a J.
OK, all my options have changed and it scares me.
OK, I'm not ready for this.
You should have figured that out beforehand.
I can't know this was going to happen until I hit stream.
This is episode like 90, 12.
Please clarify if your stream is made for kids.
Fuck off.
Oh, my. Oh, no.
Lot my big ass cock on the table.
Yeah. OK.
Get a look at that.
Run screaming.
I've already said no, Rags.
They cannot.
They're not allowed to watch those pesky children.
How dare they?
This is an this is an AO rated stream that that means adults only.
You know what?
You are below the age of twenty one.
Then you need to vacate the premise immediately or click the button
to confirm that you are over 21.
You guys know that like they're going to be nuking
classic studio by the end of this year.
Like it's just going to be gone entirely.
Classic studio.
And like the four analytics no longer work on classic.
You have to look them in the new version.
And I think what's happening is like phasing in a live stream
is no longer going to work for me on classic.
And I know how to do everything on classic.
Why are you taking it away from me?
What did I do?
We have to this is just like Disney and everyone.
You have to destroy the old things that you love and know
and that works and we're competent in order to prop up your new shitty things
that you want everyone to like.
Let the past die.
Even if it's kill it, even if it's much more superior
than your crappy new shit, new shit is terrible.
Did it hurt?
When I pen it.
Take me to the live control room.
OK, wait, is the is the thumbnail correct now or is it still being a flim?
I will look.
I will look.
No, it's still it's autism.
Oh, it's weird for me.
Subscription.
I just went on my browser.
It just oh, it just OK.
Now it's working.
Hey, it's your office.
So everything is back to normal now.
Thank goodness.
And between this and the stream that's next,
I will look into why everything is the big gay basically.
I'll be having this.
Can't be having this.
Outrageous, fruity fruity.
Oh, Rudy.
So, yes, hello, everyone.
Welcome to the number 61.
Soon to be bumped up in one number as soon as they let the BBC let go
of the other the mysterious.
It's going to need another two weeks still on that.
Oh, my goodness.
The BBC are terrible.
Pretty sure that pretty sure that my.
Well, not my ancestors, but pretty sure that the ancestors of people
in this country fought against the British in multiple wars
in order so that we didn't have to worry about the BBC claiming videos on YouTube.
Pretty sure that's in the Constitution, isn't it?
I think so.
It's one of the amendments that they added because of all this
fucking bullshit.
They just said, you know what we're going to do?
We're going to make an amendment.
Now it's constitutional. Now what?
It's pretty outrageous.
Unfortunately, yeah, it's great.
We just hope and pray that Google
finds value in the Constitution.
So cross your fingers.
It's doubtful.
Don't hold your breath.
Yeah, but we can hold out hope.
So, yeah, we the bonus, ifap.
It's it's it's seem like a thing to do.
Bone fat bones fat fat.
I can just have, you know, a moment and then everything will be ready to go.
And wonderful.
We're going to be responding to you Joker videos today with
a returning guest and a technically returning guest.
You know, these these labels, they get very complicated.
But welcome to the show.
Jay Longbone and that style's girl.
How do you both do?
Hi. Good. Hello.
Is that the way you say hi to everyone?
Hi.
It's usually the way girls say it when they're really drunk.
Hmm. Oh, my brain.
My brain's always drunk on its own chemistry alcohol.
Great idea. No, no.
It's time. It's time.
Yeah, we're almost diverse today.
Still not because three guys, two women.
I've heard from several people, including his wife,
the wise wisdom of Anita Sarkeesian.
This is just not enough wisdom.
Why? Yes. Why is them?
How come it's not called wisdom?
I don't know, man.
That's the failing on them, I suppose.
Have you spoken to them about this?
The whites, just them.
Yeah, whenever people say them, it normally is like the straights or
you're one of the leaders of the white on you, the Jews, or they
were referring to the the the straight triarchy. Oh, no.
Oh, it is.
I know it's because I haven't liked today.
We could probably talk about how Mandalorian
is upset and use Sarkeesian because there were no women in it.
And then she was told there were all of our younger viewers.
You might have to remind them of Anita's.
She looks like an internet.
I guess what's what's like like an urban legend like the feminist Onision.
Yeah. Oh, my God.
Like people know about her.
Like everyone knows about her is like a cautionary tale.
But not everyone can quite remember them back in the heyday.
She was like, yeah, I don't know.
Laughing stock. Any good thing that they've done.
I just because nothing.
We would have spoken about her back in the day with
Macintosh because we would we covered his video.
He used to be her editor, right?
Slash manager. I don't know.
Something with a writer.
Maybe I'm almost positive
she dumped him, which is kind of hilarious.
I should have kept him on by Anita Sarkeesian.
Oh, you weren't a weren't a big enough cuck for Anita Sarkeesian.
I said like she dumped him because he's not diverse enough like himself.
He's too much man.
He needs to be more. He's too man.
Non man. Why?
Too white. He's not.
Well, he's not a man.
He's male. Biologically, he's a male.
I don't know if I'd call him a man.
Just because he said I've seen myself a few few man.
Just because he likes TLJ rags, just because he likes TLJ.
Canada disqualifies him.
Well, it's fucking.
What was his argument?
The TLJ is a film about men looning that they need to listen to women.
What? You know, there should be a scene in the film
where that might be a thing that happens, but I guess not.
Listen to women. Let's get us all killed.
I mean, yeah, I was going to say.
Great idea.
So if if I would listen to Leia in the opening, they'd all be dead.
So not a good idea.
No, but the theme
is listen to women.
The theme trumps all.
Yeah. So we are going to meet.
Like I said, we're going to cover some some movie movie, Mr.
Mr. Movie Blob today.
I thought that it would make sense to start with.
Where is that quote?
Where are? Oh, yeah.
So I guess I should I should mention
he's actually acknowledged everyone.
Mr. Movie Blob himself.
He said, everyone, we made it big.
We've been acknowledged by the big man himself.
Vic, Vic, Mario.
Yeah, he said, the youngest old lady.
Someone was asking, like, would he speak to people on the map?
And he said, I can't imagine why any thinking person
would want to have a conversation which is akin to a dead tree
with two mites flowing out of it.
Yeah, that's funny coming from a guy whose brain is complete mattress filling.
Pretty much, you know, with those rings and air.
Whenever he moves around, which isn't often.
Well, man, depends on the mattress.
I suppose you can get like jelly mattresses, a jelly mattress.
But that thing would like pop beneath him.
Unless the mattress is made out of like literal jelly,
and he just submerges himself in it.
I mean, this sounds comfy, at least, right?
Be the jelly. He's like a water bed.
But a person.
I'm like imagining like this big block of jelly
just sitting in his room and you look inside it and he's just floating inside there.
It's how he sleeps.
Well, Connie, with a chance to meet balls
where he makes the Jello house and they get stuck in it.
Oh, but he would be OK with getting stuck in it.
I think he was asked why he wouldn't go on.
And he said that
he wouldn't want to legitimize what we've said about Jenny Nicholson.
So there you go, folks.
He does not approve of a fact.
It's a shame.
If only we were able to be legitimized by movie, Bob.
And there was like this, you know, several of these kinds of comments
from his fan base being like, oh, my God, this crowd, they're like, debate me, debate me.
It's like, I don't think we've ever said that to Bob Shipman.
Ever. We do not have a desire to debate Bob Shipman.
He can come on if he wants to.
But by goodness, I didn't know anybody had a desire to debate Bob.
Just talk to him and listen to him.
His debate conditions would him would be
inviting you to his house and serving you Mountain Dew.
You'd fucking want to murder us, I think you'd be like, it's for the greater good.
Maybe Bob is the only person on YouTube
who stipulations for a debate would involve catering.
I want to I want to show you folks.
I know Rags would have seen this one, but it's just so funny.
Hey, hey, I'm going to send you guys a tweet.
Who wants to read this out?
Anybody interested?
I shall do it. Read out the tweet.
Yes. OK. Let's see.
Oh, should I try and do it in a Bob Shipman voice
or should I just do it in a regular retard voice?
Dealers choice. OK.
Twenty fucking nineteen.
I was supposed to be on a star ship by now.
And bursting with intelligent robots, deciding what sort of body
I'd like to upload my immortal consciousness to.
Instead, we're all still on this fucking rock,
wondering how to placate the right working class.
I will never forgive the troglodytes who stole the future
I earned to prolong their worthless existence.
Wow, he said this is the thing that would be Bob.
Like he probably bathes every once in a while.
So he has to like see himself and he knows what he looks like.
And he wrote this with that understanding.
Oh, he's white.
He's like ghostly white.
So he's like he's like, you know, in Ghostbusters,
there's the big state puffed marshmallow.
Oh, my God. I'm just about to say that he's lighter than that.
Oh, well, this man gets a lot of sun.
No, I don't think he does.
No, he does not.
He does not get a son.
He's wearing shades.
He must go in the sun, right? You wouldn't wear shades inside, right?
It's, you know, you know.
Vitamin D is a product of the working class white man.
Is he married?
Is there a Mrs. Blob?
Mrs. Chipman.
How could you? It's a great surname.
I imagine it's like cool.
Chipman, I bet he's a chip man.
I bet he loves chips.
Wow, rolling out the fact that he is a man of the chip.
Just because you can't make any arguments against his arguments.
That's why you're doing that.
Just because he could vote twice.
Twice. You assume it's only twice.
Yeah, I was going to say, what the fuck?
Well, you know, if if he could give himself the power,
he would make himself supreme dictator of the universe galaxy.
Oh, I've just gotten a message from fucking discord.
You can claim three months of Xbox Game Pass.
Hey, how about that?
Hey, that's not a bad deal. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, we've advocated that before.
It's actually like really good value, but, you know.
Oh, yeah, you can get Gears of War and Jedi Fallen Order
and all sorts of other goodies and video games for your
your console or your computer box.
Basically, all of the things at this point and all the things
if you're looking to get some access to games for the cheapest way,
that's that and like Humble Monthly, probably your best options.
Bumble Huntly, humble.
Oh, yeah. Humble Bundle is amazing.
That's what I that's where I got Vegas from.
Like 20 bucks. Mm hmm.
So, yeah, I mean, I'm not actually, you know, the people.
So we're going to do combine the missing super chats
with the new ones at the end, which means we can kick on to the video.
Is that OK with everybody?
Does anyone want to talk about anything pressing?
Is it? I can't think because it feels weird to me
that we have an intro that's only 20 minutes.
Like that feels wrong, don't it?
Oh, I don't know.
I mean, we could talk about something if you want.
What's been what's been on your mind?
What have you been thinking about?
Literally nothing.
I don't know.
If you think about nothing, doesn't it become something true?
I don't know.
The only thing on my mind is baby Yoda.
And you haven't even seen Mandalorian.
Not a true fan. Hashtag.
You see, that doesn't even know if baby Yoda is
a boy Yoda or a girl Yoda.
Hmm. Maybe this is like you're assuming that it's only a boy or a girl.
Rag. Oh, I'm sorry.
It's I want to be a good trans ally.
I know they're very forgiving bunch.
I don't want to step out of line by assuming baby Yoda is trans.
Yeah, the baby Yoda could be trans identifies as true.
Just by not acknowledging that as a possibility
in any colloquial conversation, I'm oppressing the trans people of the galaxy.
How dare you miss gender, baby Yoda?
It's they them.
Of course. Oh, that's one of you guys heard about this one.
So I saw it on Twitter, Kathleen Kennedy complaining that it's hard
for them to make these sequels because there's no source material to work with.
Yeah, I bet you were.
I bet she works really hard.
Like it's pretty mind blowing.
It's like you deleted the extended universe
and complained that there's nothing to work from.
What the fuck?
It is a fucking thing.
I really want them to adapt Chuck Wendig's novels
because it'll just be such a dumpster fire that it can really be worse
than what we've read in those leaks.
Is it possible? Yes.
It's a Chuck Wendig novel.
He can he can do a real death oochy.
Well, there we we read before the stream began,
Mueller and I watched that Doomcock video he put out an hour and a half,
two hours ago, something like that about these apparently new leaks
that had come out where they were trying to redo a lot of the story stuff.
And it's even worse.
Yeah, it seems like they run. It's bad and worse.
Who do they hire to write this shit?
It's terrible. It's awful.
I hope that Chuck Wendig is like one of the writers.
It would come full circle.
I don't think I'd be able to believe that he'd be able to produce something so poor.
I just also like the idea.
It's like maybe maybe don't do these things if you feel that you have no ideas.
You know, how about that?
Yeah, you could just not buy movies.
You money. Oh, I'm sorry.
I forgot about money. That's my bad top.
Fucked up Kathleen Kennedy needs her vaginal tightening reconstruction.
All right. She needs money to pay for that.
She needs to get you think she gets loosened up.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, no. I'm sorry.
You're freaking wolf out. Stop.
What was the game?
And he doesn't like to think about Kathleen Kennedy's.
Don't say it.
Can't know. Oh, no.
Natural, I'm shaven.
Do you think you think she dies it?
Do you get a chance ally to work?
Well, you can do this. You can make it.
So you got a seal.
He has to choose light saber colors.
I got to quit before we even get to cinema with their toe.
Light saber vibrators, light saber vibrators.
Her nethers change color based on whatever the light saber vibrator is set to.
It could be yellow, blue.
Why would you go to yellow first?
What's wrong with white, white color?
Beautiful woman.
What's wrong with what's wrong with the yellow?
No. Oh, my.
How you doing there, Rags?
There they go. Good.
Cooch Lee Kennedy.
What? No. No.
So kick rags are drawers, kick rags.
I was just so I mentioned to check the EFAV dot me site.
There's apparently an EFAV Advent calendar.
I have absolutely no idea what this does. Check this out.
Oh, for Krimath.
Yeah, but like I have no idea what it means.
Because like memes or I don't know calendar.
I can't believe you would refer to baby Jesus as a means.
I mean, he's the best me.
Oh, Advent calendar.
Latest updates. Jesus is the greatest meme.
I'm excited to know what's in there.
But there's also the vault and the vault.
Yeah, if you go in there, it's just EFAV 60 is in the vault.
No, no. Wait, does he have a copy of it?
No, no. Well, I'm like the only person I think who can even access it right now.
But everyone can get a copy as soon as I think it's like 12 more days
and it'll be released.
Yeah, it's like it's like the 12th day of Christmas.
But honestly, my own fucking stream back.
Yes, I don't know.
Actually, like this could be anything.
I actually have no idea.
But, you know, keep keep an eye.
We've got so many little things.
And I got the website, the subreddit, the obviously
the IMDb page we covered last time.
Lots of little communities floating around, connecting
and talking about how Tlj is a very good film.
You know, it's very productive.
I hope they make another one after Tlj that goes into even more excruciating
detail to explain all of the all of the the open plot lines
and questions that were raised in The Last Jedi.
One of the possibilities were.
Oh, God, it is.
Palpitism survived.
Episode six is that Vader killed a mere clone of him.
It wasn't him at all.
Yeah, turns out that the triumph
that it turns out that the heroes that you thought were really cool
and nifty and great turns out they're garbage.
But we've got some cool new characters.
Imagine like maybe you're in as Vader as Vader is dying
and talking to Luke.
And then like one of the passing generals is like, by the way,
that wasn't the real Palpatine as he escapes.
And Vader is just like, what?
We did it.
We saved the you the galaxy.
Except we didn't.
Haha. Gotcha.
Then Luke 6 celebrating is like, by the way,
we've not really done anything, actually,
with the re-contact like Palpatine not being dead, they're being snoke,
they're being this huge army and the First Order just comes back.
It's like so episode six really didn't do anything then.
Yeah. Like just to clarify, it did fuck all.
Oh, you people wonder why I'm not a Star Wars fan anymore, man.
But you love Palpatine.
Palpatine was my favorite.
I was always rooting for him.
So I'm ready to see him.
I do unironically love Palpatine.
I don't love him being back.
Wow. You're not a true fan.
A true fan wants to see as much of a character as possible.
Even when he sucks.
Yeah. Even when he sucks.
More of him is more is better.
It's like, well, didn't even it's like women.
The more women you get to see, the better it is.
I like women. Do you like women?
You know, Wolf, fuck.
See, look at that silence, bro.
You're a bag, bro.
All right. Well, anyway, here is the link that y'all going to need
to be able to view the incredible video we're going to start.
I was thinking to start with Nando, but since he's on topic,
I think movie Bob should be given the stage.
Oh, God.
I mean, he's such a good man.
He killed me last time.
We'll see. We'll see.
Drink plenty of water and killers better like Palpatine.
Oh, wow. Rags, you're the one that's not in you.
What the fuck?
I did. I click it. OK.
Yeah, here. It's working now. It's working now.
I clicked the thing.
There you go. All right.
Yeah, we made it.
This is Bob after all.
So this is actually a follow up.
And I'm pretty sure it's because everyone was really unsatisfied
with his video and he was like, oh,
I better explain what I mean when I say
that there's fucking no message in Joker.
So, oh, you're talking.
Oh, oh, how how dare he not replace the O with an asterisk?
Yes, pretty, pretty fucking horrifying to see that word blatantly.
Like we need to really censor that.
It's very offensive.
I suggest Joker is Joker actually about anything, if not ham.
He's the Joker. Oh, no.
Oh, yeah. The Joker.
Anyway, the Joker, he come for you here.
We got damn diddly dang. Oh, yeah, that's right.
He worked covering a Joker video.
I thought I was in the Star Wars.
You know, true, true.
We'll have plenty of that.
This is the thing we need to take advantage of all the time
we have not talking about Star Wars because, oh, we got we got a whole month.
Do you got a whole month?
And then oh, yeah, that's right.
And then it'll be nothing but three years worth of more Star Wars
because it'll be just it's just going to be awful.
And we can't talk about Mandalorian because that might actually be good.
So why would we talk about good things, poo?
Yeah, we only hate things here in E-frame applause podcast.
It's not like we have one planned in like four days.
It's all about that.
Why would you say that?
Anyway, they could put like they could super chat a shibe.
A shibe? Yeah.
Look at it. A sheeb?
Well, I don't see it. Where are they coming?
A Steve Shibe?
It's in the live chat.
There's like a little there's a little rags that's waving.
I want to see the little rags gimme.
Oh, hold on. I'll snip it.
OK, yeah, do that thing too.
Is the greatest thing Windows 10 is ever had.
It's the loneliest number since the number eight point one.
He wasn't that lonely.
You can't see it being animated because he is way.
He's like actually moving in the super chat.
But there it is.
The sheeb. Yeah, man.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, they added sheeb super chats bafflingly.
You can't send a sheeb and a message.
You have to choose between one or the other.
So why they even seem to have their own space. OK.
No, it's very strange.
There is there is incredibly
very selectively competent this Google people are.
This is a cool look.
Pretty cool. They added
that of all things, because they must they must be a fan of a fab then, right?
Because I don't see how else that could have come along.
Yeah, they've got it.
They've got the sheep for me.
They've got some kind of gas mask creature for me.
Or there's multiple of them.
People keep sending them in.
Oh, my goodness. Here, let me.
I don't have to do this on my laptop because it won't work for me otherwise.
Super sticker. Oh, there's a peach.
So they have looks like a bum bum.
They've got a they've got a pair, obviously.
Chai Longbo.
They've got an excuse for you to send us more super chats or anything.
Oh, my God. Look at that one.
I don't look at that one.
Who's who's the hippo?
Who's the hippo?
Who's the hippo?
Is it movie bomb?
Is movie bomb the hippo? Oh, my God.
Hippos are the deadliest animal in Africa.
Could the same be said for a movie, Bob?
Stay tuned to find out.
They don't show up on like a human thumb.
There's a baby.
I end up killing an African on this stream.
They show up on the live chat.
They don't show up in the like video chat, which is the big gay.
But all right. That's stupid.
Oh, my God. It's an Egyptian one.
Oh, and it's like always on a shinobi one.
I can't tell how to mistake.
How did you mistake a Japanese outfit for Egyptian?
Because it doesn't look like either of them.
I look like an Egyptian.
Also, it's got like a it's got like party poppers at the bottom of it.
There's a lot of things this could be.
Oh, my goodness.
He's got a little samurai outfit and he's got his flag.
He's got a big old heart.
He's squeezing the heart and he's he's got his fireworks.
By the way, we're a hateful Nazi podcast.
Can you please read that?
His sparklers.
Yeah, I can't wait for the the Twitter outrage over this.
And then we'll have to link them to this part of the stream.
We're all like a chance.
We're all fording over little teddy bears.
I'm glad we're not trans allies or they'd be down our fucking throats right now.
Over the teddy bears.
I got little little fans.
I love these. These are amazing.
It's weird, though, that
they wouldn't let you say that one's creepy.
There's a lemon that kisses a heart to you.
Cynic snacks.
What are you what are you doing?
Why is there a lemon person in this world?
Oh, why would cynic snacks be a lemon?
No, he's clearly giving us a lemon person because he doesn't want it because it's creepy.
Oh, I thought you meant the lemon was cynic snacks.
Well, that's very strange.
You'd have to explain it's pretty cool.
They made a bunch of emotes exactly inspired by rags, though, like specifically.
It's pretty cool. I know. That's crazy.
I think I had to take off my shades for legal reasons. Mm hmm.
Pretty new rule from YouTube like shades or a gateway drug or something.
So every one of the little characters for a super stickers,
they have like a name and a bio, right?
The bio for the sheep is his name is Bushiva.
All right. Mm hmm.
When Bushiva lost his owner, male confirmed,
he turned to a life of motorcycles and mischief.
But now he's turning over a cool new leaf.
Motorcycles and Mischief, huh?
Sounds a lot like the Dawn's pet, if you know what I mean.
Oh, my goodness.
Motorcycles and mischief.
Oh, I can't believe two two wheeled automobiles and sexual harassment.
Oh, my God. Sign me up.
Um, Dream Machine.
Anyway, it's to go on the other end of the spectrum entirely.
Who's ready for movie, Bob?
Me, I am not.
I, I can't.
Oh, I don't think you're ready for all this jelly.
Oh, no. Oh, no.
Not the jelly.
I ain't jelly about like how it says view at your own risk.
It's so applicable.
View at your own risk.
Oh, God, that's like speaking to us from the gelatinous cube in his room.
I'm going to be really disappointed.
Oh, yeah, he lives in the jar.
Dancing, lemon bread, more.
The lemon person's very when they're when you know what to do.
Draw the lemon person.
I love. No, not the lemon person.
Draw the cinema Roberto in a giant jelly cube.
Giving out commands through like little
there's going to be little wires connected to his brain
that go outside of the cube into a PC.
Oh, anyway, it makes sense.
Apparently, there's an item in Pokemon Sword and Shield called P.P.
up. That's been an old Pokemon.
P.P. up. Yeah. Yeah.
But yeah, but it's funny now.
It's funny now.
Because I learned about it, which made it funny.
OK. Oh, they get a bottle of P.P.
Frank, this is your last chance.
If you want to leave, it says view at your own risk.
Like this is a serious thing.
Listen, I've got my bottle of P.P. up.
My P.P. is up. I am ready.
Why would you P.P. be a fucking cinema Roberto?
Oh, no, it's so we need to have a time.
No, so that by the time we're done, my P.P.
will be at its normal size because normally it would like shrink into itself.
OK. Fucking up the bottom of my desk, though.
I'm sure you'll take care of that soon.
Escapist magazine.
So for those of you who are feeling possibly confused
as to exactly how this month's two a week show schedule works for me.
Fuck. This is the stupid one where he speaks super fast.
This is Bob and his natural habitat.
I don't like it.
He's super fast because he forces me to consider slowing him down.
That makes it longer.
Is his father the micro machines guy?
What the fuck?
Like, I can't explain this.
I don't know why he does this.
And I always assumed he was just trying to copy Yahtzee
because Yahtzee speaks really fast.
But you can like follow Yahtzee's through line when he speaks with Bob.
You're like, I'm sorry, you just use seven words with eight syllables each.
His trick is that he says one word at a time
because, of course, he can't speak that fast.
I mean, he's breathing, you know, he's fat.
Even chat is saying we have to slow him down and then just like puts it together.
I think we did figure out that slowing him down was the way to defeat him.
So I'm going to slow him down a little bit.
I think so.
Because it's a slow and old movie, but yes,
I think we're going to have that's what we had to do last time,
because movie Bob can take like a word like big,
but he could say it with two syllables.
Big, big, big.
OK, I don't even know. I can't do it.
So for those of you who are feeling
possibly confused is exactly how this month is to a week.
Oh, shit. It's echoing from Anna's mic, I think.
I don't know what I do.
Yeah. Two bops for the price of one.
No, it's not the deal we were asking for.
All right. It was getting worse all the time.
We will contract the turbo autism if we have to listen to it twice.
So I guess maybe it's coming through your speakers or.
OK, so how do I fix it so that way it does not do that?
Oh, well, plug your speakers and destroy them.
I will not be able to hear it.
Are you? Wait, so you're listening to all of us three speakers?
Yeah. Oh, I'm surprised it's working as well.
Do you do you have like a like a headset like someone in 2019 might have?
Nope. OK, we've maybe turn.
If the microphone isn't picking us up and you can still hear us,
that means that you could probably turn him down to a degree
where he's not picked up by your thing, but you can still hear him, right?
Yeah, go to the the watch together and lower lower the volume on that.
Just lower him as much as you can so that you can still hear him.
But he won't echo. Hopefully that works.
OK, let's try it and let's see if this works. I just did it.
All right. Here we go.
Week show schedule works on Tuesdays.
Regular episodes of The Big Picture on Thursday.
Special Halloween themed episodes for October.
Why are we talking about doing it?
Still like a little bit. Yeah, you still need to make the blob.
Go away. No, no, no, no.
We need blob. We need the blob.
We need no need him to go away.
Beware the blah.
All right, I'll like back up and hold my microphone.
My speakers. What's what microphone are you using out of curiosity?
Blue snowball.
Is there like a mute button or anything sort of physical or is it?
What do they call it? The yellow snowball?
Yeah, but yeah, like on the on the yeah, that's a sorry.
I'll just mute myself on here when the video plays.
Yeah, sure. That should work.
OK, I think he's just talking about the actual video coming out right now.
Picture on Thursday's special Halloween themed episodes for October.
Why are we talking about Joker again already?
Because I didn't really want to.
But I also kind of do anyway.
They're putting some people on the screen.
Hey, man. Wolf thinks those guys are handsome.
Gay confirmed.
Whoa, who likes the big.
Yeah, it slipped out eventually.
Yeah. Everyone put G in chat for gay.
All right. It kind of explains why he hates women so much.
Probably. Yeah, the gays infamously do hate women.
Yeah, because they can't use their mind control powers on the women.
Mm hmm. Not so stay tuned for that, too. Anyway.
So distorted.
Just like moving up.
It also sounds like this theme for like a really fat guy walking.
He's like, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
Like he's playing like a private detective.
He's the only detective called Joe Hamhawk.
There's like the only thing it's missing is a tuba.
Don't do it.
When he's in a crime scene, there's like a fucking knife on the floor.
He's like, oh, geez.
Oh, OK. Oh, I'm a Neil Racta.
I mean, my grandmother at the right nearly at four p.m.
I can imagine his knees creaking like an old floorboard if he tries to bend.
He's like the first detective to operate on a fucking scooter.
He's just like where we go on a rascal.
So he's just a less attractive Paul Blart.
Land, old bitches.
I imagine never movie Bob goes swimming like Spain
tries to claim him as a new world.
He just rolls around wherever he needs to go.
His story lives.
He lives in like a like a hobbit house where all the doors circle.
Oh, my goodness.
This is what you'll never talk to us now.
No, you'll never fucking talk to us anyway.
The fuck you'll never just envelop your boy.
No, if we think about his enormous girth, he'll never be your friend.
If he tried to sled down a hill, do you think he'd just roll
and turn into a really big snowball by the bottom?
Yes, can he get white with snow?
Make him whiter.
They make him darker.
He become more of his fated enemy.
Donut hole.
Detective Hamock here.
I've fallen down a cliff.
I'm getting.
I don't see Bob still.
Oh, no. Oh, no.
This is a serious.
This is a serious podcast.
Very serious.
I want to somebody fund produced direct complete the show.
Detective Hamock, I will pay for this.
Have him reach Gotham for Batwoman
and become here like you're like mentor.
He's like her hair is like a red wine punch.
I love you.
And hey, look at this can work in cinema.
Roberto's favor, because he wants diversity.
And I mean, how many like heroes can you think of who have diabetes?
Um, diabetes.
I can't think of many any diabetes.
Oh, God, diabetes.
That could be his name.
Oh, diabetes.
He's like a Avengers villain.
It's like diabetes out.
No, no, no. Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Someone draw him like a magneto, except he's got diabetes.
Get all the back of his face.
He's losing out of the fucking mask.
He's whereas magneto can control metal.
Diabeto control the sugar.
So just keep it as long as you keep him away from like candy store and stuff.
Yeah, if he goes there, he'll be unstoppable.
Yeah, whatever you saw in me, I fried it with my family.
Oh, no, you know why?
That's seated next to where he draws the iron out of the blood.
He's just drawing sugar out of them.
You've been drinking a lot of soda pop.
Instead of like a metal helmet, he's wearing like a birthday cake or something.
Oh, he's wearing one of those helmets that has the like the cans on it.
You drink.
Oh, yeah, like fuck.
What are they called?
I don't even know.
Weird people, hats, weird people, hats.
They can't just drink.
Normally, God.
Diabeto, your chicken will not be safe.
Your pizza will not be safe.
Your gingerbread houses will not be safe.
And they are mine to control.
Diabeto and his sidekick, Cheeto, Cheeto.
Fucking the diabetic Cheeto.
Sorry, you haven't even made a point yet.
I'm sorry. We'll get there.
Let's take a moment to appreciate Holmes Gould.
Holmes Gould, yes. Yeah, it's hilarious.
It's really funny.
So Joker made a bunch of money at the box office over the weekend,
which is being treated as a surprise for purposes of further marketing,
as though the idea that a movie about probably the second most popular character
and one of the most popular franchises in the most popular movie genre on the planet
for like the last decade of human history,
pulling a big number opening uncontested in early fall
is some kind of miraculous.
Is he aware of all the movies that have failed?
Yeah, yeah, apparently not.
And the big thing about it was they did it without China's help.
That's the thing.
How does he explain this?
How does he explain Justice League?
Like, what the fuck, dude, we got Superman, Batman, Wonder Woman, Aquaman,
Flash and Cyborg all headlining a movie and it fucking failed.
Well, you'll see it's different because it's not totally acceptable.
This is the equivalent of like he meets us in like battle in fucking Gotham.
And he's like, that's different.
You can't say this diabido away.
But your arguments, diabetes, your arguments.
Yes, it was a surprise.
The Joker did this well.
I don't think anybody could have predicted it was going to make over a billion.
That's like, yeah, that's definitely a surprise.
And as for the other movies that were competing with Joker.
What what what other movies had kind of came out,
you know, alongside of Joker that might have,
you know, taken away its movie.
Is that part of his point that they didn't have competition?
Well, it had Gemini Man, Will Smith.
Well, I mean, Will Smith, true, big actor.
Well, he not like biggest movie, Bob, but he's big actor, famous.
You know, we had Adam's family.
Yeah, God, I heard it was the death of cinema, apparently.
Death of cinema.
Yeah, Brown Table said it was the death of cinema.
The Adam's family.
Um, let's see, what else what else came out?
I don't even know.
Uh, Abominable was going out.
Yeah, we had Abominable.
I had some movie about.
Um. I guess the Abominable Snowman, the Getties,
like in like in the third.
Is it the sequel to movie?
Happy Feet is the abominable.
No big or like Bigfoot or some big feet.
No, there was last time they came out with another yeti movie.
And then is abominable animated yeti movie?
Rule, no, we've got we have small foot.
We have small foot unless OK, there's there's actually been
apparently a lot of fucking Bigfoot movies recently.
I've been aware we have abominable.
We have small foot.
We have missing link.
We have the son of Bigfoot.
We have Mission Catman do.
And we have Chill Out Scooby Doo.
But that was from 2007.
So it's probably I've seen that.
Yeah, how is it?
From what I remember, it was just OK.
It's OK. Oh, oh, remember years and years ago
when they started kind of redoing the Scooby Doo movies,
you had Scooby Doo and Zombie Island, which was the best.
Zombie Island was right.
Yeah, Zombie Island was great.
You had Scooby Doo and the witch's ghost, the witch's ghost.
That was pretty good.
You had Scooby Doo meets the aliens or whatever it was.
Oh, yeah, that's the one was a cyber trail or something cyber.
Yeah, there was that there was also.
Yeah, yeah, there was when they go to Australia and there's the vampire like band.
Yeah, that was that was actually part of the witch's ghost.
So the hex girls was the name of the band.
No, so there's another Scooby Doo where they go to Australia
and there's like this rock band that's playing.
But then a vampire like when he's in like the bat kind of form comes up
and they find out it's just an illusion, but there's an actual vampire.
I have no I had no idea about it came out a few years after.
So the witch's ghost and the zombie one came out
in the beginning of those series of movies.
The one I'm talking about is a little bit like maybe eight years after that.
And the curse of the Australian
band. So, oh, we're talking about Scooby Doo and the Legend of the Vampire.
Yeah, so that's when they got Australia.
Yeah, that's that's what I put in.
That's what I put into Google Scooby Doo and the curse of the Australian
vampire band. And I've been made aware
just got to know what to search for the Bob Chippen celebrated
Captain Marvel for being out the one billion score.
As though it's a shock.
It's like, uh-huh.
The film is between the two biggest fucking movies.
Yeah. Yeah, shocker.
Apparently, that is, you know, surprising, but Joker, a movie
that's disconnected from the DCEU made by a director with like
no expectation of creating something amazing.
I mean, you know, I know a lot of people like the hangover movies.
I'm pretty sure I do as well.
But nobody was expecting that.
How would you not know if you like them or not?
Maybe that's what or not, because I'm pretty sure I do, too.
Did I say that to the hangover?
Yeah. Oh, hangover.
Maybe the first one.
Maybe I had a brain fart because I was like, I know I like the first one.
I can't remember what I think of the rest of them.
So so the second one is where they're in Thailand
and he gets the tattoo on his face.
The one guy gets his finger chopped off.
Oh, my God, maybe I didn't see it.
Oh, and yeah, they have to get the monkey that is a drug dealer.
Yeah, I don't think I saw it.
Oh, yeah, it's all coming together.
Yes. Oh, yeah.
No. And then the third one is where John Goodman is in it.
And so he's the one that I guess Mr.
Chow stole all of his gold.
So they have to go get the rest of the gold from Mr.
Chow's old house.
And then you find out that the gold was actually the gold
that John Goodman already had.
So they ended up stealing the other half of his gold.
And then Alan gets married.
What do you do?
You sound like you remember them.
How good were they, do you think?
What would you say? Alan?
Oh, Alan, I'm glad he was able to get married.
Yeah, he gets married to what's her name.
Oh, my God, that is a hologram McCarthy.
I think or something.
Melissa McCarthy.
Yes, he is married to her.
I'm so sorry.
Oh, Senator McCarthy.
Yeah.
Hey, which of the hex girls was your favorite?
Which one was Wolf Wolf?
He's abandoned the podcast.
Fuck. All right.
Mueller, which of the hex girls would you bone?
Well, why wouldn't all of the male guests of this question?
All of them is obviously the answer.
All right.
We'll start from the top.
Jay Longbone, which of the hex girls would you be on first?
Nigga, I watched that shit.
Oh, man.
You don't like Scooby Doo?
No, I watched the original show when I was a kid.
I didn't get into all the spinoff stuff and the newer stuff.
Hmm. I don't know why.
And this stuff came out in like the early 2000s, right?
I don't know, Rags, you just googled it.
What years did those come out?
Well, let me let me check the Scooby Pedia.
So like they've been in multiple iterations.
And so it seemed to have got like a game version here and a cartoon.
Yeah, so there's the cyberspace one.
So that's the one where they go through different
like levels of cyberspace through the video game.
And because they're at a carnival, you know, I shouldn't put Google on screen.
Who knows what's going to come up?
I've got to be careful.
Oh, yeah, they they they they appeared in Scooby Doo and the witch's ghost.
They were in Scooby Doo and the legend of the vampire.
They were also in what's new Scooby Doo.
And yeah, they made some appearances here.
Yes, because they were so popular.
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
Did you watch the ones where it was just Scooby Shaggy and Scrappy?
Oh, the old ones.
Well, they had the Boo Brothers and they had the one
where they were teaching like the monsters.
So all the like scary monsters from the.
Yeah, I know what you're talking about.
Yeah, the problem is that Scrappy is a little fucking cunt
and it was really hard for even like a child.
They made it up with Scrappy.
They made him a villain in the movie, didn't they?
Because they're like, people hate Scrappy.
They did.
Absolutely. Because Scrappy's a little asshole.
I don't know. I like Scrappy.
Like if you could have you could have a you could have a lake of acid
in Scrappy would be like, I'm going to go beat the fucking acid up acid.
It's so cute because Shaggy just picked him up because he's so little
and he's like trying to punch him and his like hands are moving,
his little legs are moving, but he can't like touch anything
because he's getting held up. It's so cute.
Can't you just appreciate the spirit of him?
Rags, the spirit, the spirit of the spirit of Scrappy.
I wish he was just a spirit.
Wow. Scrappy is the kind of nigga who will slap your girl on the ass in the club.
And then be like, it's so good.
So good girls ass in the club.
That's that's that is typical Scrappy.
Scrappy behavior.
Scrappy.
Then he just punt him out the front door because he's a small thing.
Like, but then he figures out how to get back in because he's small and he's nifty.
Yeah. So
well, what are we thinking?
What are we thinking, Anna?
We think in Thorn, Dusk or Luna, who's going first?
For what?
For who?
OK, which of the three members of the Hex Girls, who'd you bone first?
Um, none because they're not men.
Oh, my God. That's so sad.
I'm not being you know, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. I'm not attracted to women.
Matt Moller.
Yeah, I'm going for the black.
This is this.
Um, not if not.
I'm going to base it on hair pretty much.
I like the black hair.
Who's got black hair?
The middle one, Dorn.
No, it's like dark red.
It is black, but it has like a red highlight to it.
Well, it's like whenever it looks black, but whenever the sunlight hits it,
you can tell like, oh, that is that's really dark red.
It's like blood red.
Well, that's a trick that they used in animation is so that if your character
has like a, you know, black hair, like even like a black mask,
they put like a highlight on it.
So that way you can see the character against the background,
especially when the backgrounds are going to be night.
So that's why she has the red.
Oh, well, the two of them have the red then because there was orange blossom.
Uh, uh, Luna is her name.
The keyboarder person lady keyboard person.
I don't want to I don't want to say keyboardman.
That's very rude.
The keyboard, the keyboardist, the penis.
And yes, so movie, Bob.
Now that we've settled, now that we've settled the way, what was your choice?
Right? What was your choice?
Oh, I'm absolutely fucking thorn first.
All right. Yeah.
OK. I'm glad that was important.
Bob, you may continue now aid of human history.
Pulling a big number opening uncontested in early fall
is some kind of miraculous unexpected victory for the film and its fans
against the overwhelming adversary of marginally divided reviews
from professional critics.
And it's pretty underselling it a little with how this movie was covered by the media.
Yeah, it was down to like 50 something originally.
Not to mention just the headlines.
They were like trying to kill that movie before it even came out saying,
oh, don't go to the theater.
You're going to get shot if you go to a theater and watch this movie.
Yeah, we covered Jenny Nichols, and she was like, I didn't go to a normal theater.
I went to drive in theater to improve my survival odds.
Oh, yeah. You know what?
I actually don't believe her on that because she and I.
You don't. Here's the thing rags.
She and I live relatively close together.
And me and my friend, Sav, we like to go to drive ins.
But hey, guess what? There's none down here.
And I was like, huh, she went to go see Joker.
Let me let me go through and find all the drive ins around me
and what days they were out.
Her evidence is not lining up.
It's not. No.
There was a good chance she made it up on the spot to be like, look how
like I did that is evidence of like the quick, I guess.
And then when she's called out how much it doesn't make sense, she was just like,
no, like, oh, he's he's levitating marshmallows.
Is that right? Oh, are those marshmallows or chiclets?
I thought they were sugar cubes.
Yeah, I thought they were cubes for a second there.
Oh, are they not?
I can't tell very well in this picture.
Oh, it's perfect.
You're like my room.
It's a place.
He's looking pretty good there.
It's like he's lost a lot of weight.
Good stuff, Bob.
He wears the he wears the shades under the mask, I guess.
Do you think it's hard to fit them under there?
I think so.
So what is what is Sennema Roberto said so far?
Oh, you missed him saying that it was no shock.
This movie did well because it's a part of a big franchise.
So why is everyone raving about that?
Why is everyone raving about the fact that I did well?
Because we know what I'll just play it again.
Like you, Bob.
We'll get what we're happy on this.
All right. Get ready.
So Joker made a bunch of money at the box office of the weekend,
which is being treated as a surprise for purposes of further marketing
as though the idea that a movie about probably the second
most popular character and one of the most popular franchises
in the most popular movie genre on the planet for like the last decade
of human history pulling a big number opening uncontested in early fall
is some kind of miraculous unexpected victory for the film and its fans
against the overwhelming adversary of marginally.
Go ahead. OK, Bob, let me let me try to explain this to you
in a way that your small mind can possibly understand.
It is a shock that a movie that is not attached to the DCEU
as it currently stands, a movie made by the guy who is known
for making the hangover films and a movie that is rated R has done this well.
That's why it's a surprise, not because it's a superhero movie,
but because it's completely detached from the current superhero movies
made by a guy who really, you know, one would ever think
he'd make a good superhero movie and it's rated R and it
I mean, it broke the record for a highest rated a lot of records,
which is the most objective evidence we can have in terms of it
doing better than expected. It's beating out records.
I'm just glad it's a surprise at all by it.
I watched the trailer and I was like, this is going to be a really good movie.
It's probably going to make a lot of money.
I can't say I was I was expecting to do OK
because it wasn't attached to anything.
And it was just this movie about a character that they're calling Joker.
And it's like, I didn't know how good it was going to be.
Yeah, just to support that, by the way,
do you hear that he said the second most popular character in the franchise?
He's referring to Batman being more popular.
So how does he explain Justice League?
I will keep coming back to that.
I mean, isn't like the whole appeal of the Dark Knight being the Joker?
Like no one talks about Batman in that movie.
Yes, because even Christian Bale has regrets about his portrayal
of Batman in that movie.
It's just like Batman's fine in that movie.
And that's kind of almost what you could call an issue.
It's like he's not.
Maybe it's like it's a lot of people talk about whether or not it's Batman
or Bruce Wayne that's boring or both or not boring, but not interesting enough.
I don't know if it's just hard to be interesting when you're acting alongside
someone like Heath Ledger as Joker can be tough.
Well, that one dude did it in The Knight's Tale.
Yeah. Why would you?
So if it's false, it's actually not the Joker in that.
He's a completely different character.
There were listeners.
That's a great point.
You guys. Chat backed me up.
A Knight's Tale.
Yeah, it's a good film, but what are you talking about?
Well, you're like, it's hard to you were you were like, hey,
it's hard to stand out when you're next to Heath Ledger.
But I was like, oh, yeah, well, what about a specified Heath Ledger Joker?
You you disingenuous person.
No, Heath Ledger.
He played kind of a Joker character.
They told some jokes in that.
Oh, he was kind of a.
Rags, you're not appreciating.
You're not appreciating Stay Puff, Bob.
On on on Rick Von Lichtenstein.
Ork Von Lichtenstein.
I knew much more about him.
His head fits so perfectly out of that body.
What's the photo?
Oh, it's Bob's face on it.
It looks exactly like him.
We are becoming the same thing that we saw.
Does he have dimples or is that just his cheekbones?
I don't we this is forever.
We don't know.
My theory was that he had a horrible accident
where his face was stretched open and the surgery couldn't fix it all.
Do you think his head's like a pufferfish and like
when he's like not angry, his face like sucks in on itself?
Oh, it could be.
I think it's weird that someone who's so large has cheekbones like that.
That's the thing.
I don't know what's going on there.
Because when you get older, like with your dimples, I notice that,
especially on men, is they kind of become wrinkles that are just lines
in your cheeks like that.
Like what's the guy from Game of Thrones that
Catlin's brother, Heath Ledger?
No, smaller game of Thrones, Catlin's brother.
Well, I know this one.
Did the dude who was useless and everything?
Yeah, the one that had me or Kelly.
So he I you know, he's got the lines on his face on his cheeks.
And I realized I'm like, OK, so he had dimples and that that's the wrinkles
from his dimples. So that's kind of like movie bop here.
So I think he just has dimples.
Yes, as Nathan T just highlighted, he's both fat and gaunt.
It's very odd.
He is font.
One of his dimples could pass as a swimming pool.
No, don't say that just because he probably sweats a lot.
No, I don't even suggest that.
I can't believe you would say that on national television.
Victory.
No one assumed that until you said something.
Global saturation.
If you're going to say that, you have to put on the accent.
Do it.
Crass.
Crass.
No, yeah.
Crass.
You see, I'm to global saturation.
Crass, crass.
Oh, we.
Rezzy, well, five is terrible, but it's so great.
And how terrible it is.
It kind of is. It really it's a specialism.
OK, hey, hey, let's see what he has to say about Joker.
OK, let's do it.
I'm glad that I made a lot of money.
As am I. I'm fucking it's the fucking one crumb of hope
we got in this terrible year of movies.
Crass, crass.
The one crumb of hope.
Crass.
It made a lot of money, crass.
Arebaros, Joker, Crass.
Why do people keep asking for it?
Well, what is the hex girl question?
I don't know what that means.
You have to answer which one of the.
All right, let's get up, do it.
All right.
I'm glad I'm glad that you're here again.
Well, if it's good, we're glad to have you back.
So are you familiar with the hex girls?
No.
Well, let me tell you.
So are you familiar with Scooby Doo and the witch's ghost?
No, you're like Jay.
You haven't seen anything.
You don't see any real films.
You haven't seen any real films.
I haven't seen a Scooby Doo movie since I was like 10 Scooby Doo.
And the witch's ghost came out way back in like 2000, something like that.
Long tisms ago.
Now, there's a band of vampire ladies, but they weren't really vampires,
but they thought they were vampires called the Hex Girl.
They're they're they're wiccans, wiccans.
You're right.
Willow's a part of this group that Willow.
She doesn't play a musical instrument in the band.
There's only three girls.
But this one time a band camp, she did.
Well, that's some deep referencing.
We've just done that.
I like it.
I'll get you a picture of the Hex Girls here.
And you can tell me which one you want to bone first.
Why did you say that?
Like a ball mischievous voice?
When you want to because why would you be seriously greasy as hell?
No, right there.
Tell me which one you'd bone with.
Rockstar ladies pretending to be witches.
You're like, all right, so greasy.
You want to bone them.
All right. So that those are the Hex Girls.
Definitely not the one on the left.
She looks like she has autism.
I know she's like better from the well, it's a bad analogy.
She's right. Stay away from that comparison.
This I got to I got to go with a hard middle.
The middle, hard for the middle.
I agree. I think the chicken that's thorn, right?
Oh, my gosh, is the edgiest name.
I think I've heard.
Yeah, thorn.
But what are the other two names again?
Dusk and Luna.
I'm guessing Dusk is the retard.
Dusk is the retard.
The one on the left.
Oh, my goodness.
We can't say that.
So Luna is the pianist.
Whoa, dude. Get out of your system.
Get out of your system.
Come around, seeing that.
Luna's on the right. That's Luna.
Dusk is on the left because she's often left in the dust.
I don't know. Yeah, the dusk.
She she's she bites the dusk whenever all the the boys come around
because they're like, Oh, did we get on this? Exactly.
Well, what I have is this very I actually don't know.
We were talking about scrappy.
Rags is a big. No, it's fine.
I don't actually know how we got to talking about.
Should we let Bob make another point?
I'm curious where he's going to go with this. OK, fine.
He already made one that was really wrong.
He's he's one for one zero for one.
The maths like it depends.
I don't know. This one's like, man, this one's like it's like
a non point sort of like, I guess some people were really surprised.
He's doing the thing where it's like you shouldn't even be shocked by this.
And it's like anyone could be shocked for any fucking reason.
There's plenty of reason to be shocked by this.
I'm not. I send some scattering over
hyping of random concern trolling in the national media.
I'm deflated.
A fitting end for you, Joker, which.
Oh, no, Joker's wonderful editing.
I read a lot of calm diabetes is become diabetes.
Hey, it means that he knows his shit.
He's referencing the old stuff.
That's true.
They were called people are telling me to adjust my setting
so that with a microphone only picks up me in discord.
I don't know how to do that, though.
Um, whatever you need to do might be something
that ends up being a little bit too complicated for now.
Like whatever you've been doing from now is just this working.
So could you hear it this last time?
I don't think so.
But if we do, we'll be like, you know,
OK, because I just put my hands over the microphone.
All right, then.
Burned up, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold on.
Damn it.
Anna, you're familiar with this, this Scooby Doo movie, then.
Is this person in the chat telling the truth
when they say fun fact fact dusk tried to hook up with the dog?
What dog Scooby Doo Scooby Doo?
You know, the other dog in the show, there are other dogs are scrappy doo.
I was going to say there is the Labrador from the space one alien.
And yeah, it's fucking hot heading Scooby,
but they don't try to hook up with him unless it happens in the one where Scooby
gets turned into a man, but I'd have to.
Oh, my goodness.
I look up Scooby Doo as a human.
Oh, my God.
Don't quote me on that.
I'd have to go back and watch them.
But the reason why these are all so fresh in my memory is because
my stepdaughter has been watching, you know, crappy TV shows.
So I'm like, no, you're going to get to my God.
Hence we say, oh, oh, my God.
Yeah, he looks like he looks like he looks like a Jewish.
He looks like a what?
A Jewish penis.
Oh, I just spit out my juice.
I love. Oh, why?
You're the one who brought it up.
Didn't you already have a mental image in your head?
That's a nose right there.
He could he could drive that.
Oh, my goodness.
He can sniff a shekel 10 miles away.
I can almost feel Ben Shapiro blushing.
I'm to be fair, if we are friends of all of the Jewish people
includes scooby doo nasty, terrible jokes that they're telling about.
This is scooby doo.
His ethnicity is dog.
I don't know what you want.
Why is he they gave him a brown T shirt, I guess.
Well, yeah, so he's got a really fucked up face.
And he has one big two.
Yes, he has a brown shirt. Yes.
Where's this yarmulke?
All right. It's it's there.
It's just hidden by the hair.
You know, what's cool is that you guys didn't know that this image existed
before, and it was awesome being here to experience your guys introduction
to scooby doo as a man.
Oh, my goodness.
I didn't know that scooby doo is actually a person
yet a terrible accident with a transmogrifier.
I was going to say the horrible reveal that this is a prequel episode
before he got turned into a dog.
And he just he's been begging for help this whole time.
He just can't get it out.
Do you guys ever watch the show where there were teenagers?
And so it's Scooby and Shaggy when like Scooby's a puppy puppy
and Shaggy's a teenager and he has Scooby's dog house in the backyard.
That's actually like a mansion underground.
Can I go? Oh, that's that's a pup named Scooby Doo, right?
Yeah. Yeah, that show is garbage.
Oh, my God, I love this part.
I remember.
I was going to say Rags was brutal reality.
No, it's a dumb show.
The show is dumb.
And Fred Fred into it.
Idiot. I'm sorry.
Someone at the chat called him Scooby Jew.
Oh, no. Oh, no.
Oh, no. Why would you say that?
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Scooby, Scooby, Scooby Jew to the master race.
Don't even what is that even a parody of?
Oh, no, we're going to we're going to get a bunch of people
doing the Scooby Jew titles now.
Oh, no. Congratulations.
Well, here I didn't like this joke or have this happen.
Fred and Idiot.
And they made Velma insanely smart and she did everything
because she's so smart and she just is insufferable.
Well, Rags intelligent.
They made Fred an idiot. Yeah, I do.
Well, that's why I've talked to Lauren when I watched it.
Well, I haven't seen it since it came out on Cartoon Network.
Back in the number one cartoon network.
No, no, no, no, no.
We're not going to get into a tangent couch again.
So let's go and let's talk.
The last thing we want to do is get onto a tangent.
Oh, is Joker actually about anything?
We need. Yeah, we would do it.
We're on. We're doing it.
We got. Oh, my God.
Sorry about this.
I had to play this edit again and for you, Joker,
which you may recall turned bizarrely political
when director Todd Phillips,
previously best known for Road Trip, the Hangover trilogy
and the feature adaptation of Starsky and Hutch,
stated that his making the film was inspired by traditional comedy
having been killed by, quote unquote, woke culture
and laid up in the negative reviews on the far left.
So there's a certain irony.
I mean, I mean, I mean, it's like 90.
When you when you slow down, I mean.
You know, when you showed me that clip from earlier in the video,
I noticed that like slowing him down, you realize he mispronounces
like every third word he does is.
I don't know how to explain it.
A lot of people say it's his Boston accent slipping in.
I'm just like, I think, oh, he's from Boston.
This actually makes sense.
Yeah, at least that's what I've been told.
I got lasagna caught under his tongue.
That's what that's the problem.
Irony.
Craz.
Yeah, I don't know.
I think the I don't I don't find those comments to be unfair.
The idea that he's like, I don't want to do comedy anymore
because it's too difficult to actually tell a lot of different jokes
because you'll get in trouble for them.
It's like, yeah, I went to drama.
I mean, wasn't he proven right after the show, after the after the movie
was released anyway, like, oh, there's going to be shootings.
Yeah, I mean, the people who are missing with fucking reason, it was offensive.
Let's let's see what Roberto Scott to say about how wrong he is.
I think great.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Wait, wait, wait. What's happening?
What?
What's going on?
Oh, wait, wait.
Hang on a minute.
Oh, my goodness, it's just, it's just, it's just, it's just, oh, my goodness.
He's so comfy in his gelatinous cute.
This looks like a new art style as well,
but assuming this isn't for Baywood or anything.
No, it's it's from the Commissioner Minnick.
Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, no.
Oh, no. There's another one.
Well, if you're scaring me, what's happening?
He's a puffer fish.
Oh, my goodness.
You need a carrot, you fat bastard.
Carrot, you fat bastard.
This is named the name of the stream, but even Carrot, you fat.
You fat episode 60, whatever.
You think you're a you fat bastard.
Oh, my goodness. Don't.
But what movie you realize we're going to be on Taggis for so many hours,
he's going to tweet out, apparently this podcast made a 10 hour video about me.
And this time it'll be true about you guys are sexist.
Oh, you covered him before in his opinions or shit.
We're just here for the lols of this point.
We're not sexist. We're fattest.
Yes, that is actually true.
We're ableist because we prefer people are able to move.
Yeah, healthy at all sizes, you fucking bigots.
We're mobileists.
We give privilege to those who are mobile.
That's the point, though, that's so cruel.
The point, though, that movie Bob is going to make here is movie Bob
is going to try and say that, oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Woke, cancel culture.
That's not a thing.
I mean, not everyone is not literally everyone is canceled.
Not literally everything is is turned away.
No, not everyone's getting fired.
We're not trying to ruin everyone's life.
Therefore, this guy's concerns about cancel culture are super dumb.
I mean, it wasn't why it was back in like mid-September, right?
You had that new comedian who was hired for S&L as a writer
and then he got fired because he said homophobic
kings in his podcast and stuff like that.
And I fucking hate people who say cancel culture is the thing
because their life didn't get ended.
Like, that's not the fucking you fucking idiot.
Like, yeah, cancel culture is like the fact that people accept
to accept the behavior of ruining people's lives
over little shit. That's what it is.
Doesn't matter if it doesn't follow through.
It doesn't matter if you lose anything or not.
It's the fact that you think it's fucking appropriate
to call someone's fucking job and tell them and show them their Facebook
and it's like some shit they said in 2008 and get them fired over that.
That's the problem. That's it. Oh, God.
I've never heard of people like Count Dankula.
No, uninsul the uninsuline diabetes.
I mean, how often is it that somebody says something
and oh, no, here come the Twitter mobs and here come the articles
and here come the protests and here come the news
letter writing campaigns.
Can I get this person fired?
Oh, you can't allow this person to speak here.
You can't allow this person to have a talk here.
You can't know they can't be here because they tell me any jokes
and it offends people like fuck off, Bob.
If you're going to try and let the world know that it's totally
that's not a real thing, guys, even though you hear about it happening
at all the fucking time, it's not real.
It's just it's just all right lies.
It doesn't happen to me.
No one takes away my honey ham.
I like the idea that he shoots these marshmallows at you
at high speeds and they go through you and he's just like, oh, die, Nazi.
Have you ever been killed by a marshmallow?
Well, to be fair, I haven't been killed by anything, I guess,
but no, I haven't been killed by a marshmallow.
All right.
So anyway, he has a video, his video, the Hangover trilogy
and the feature adaptation of Starsky and Hutch stated
that his making the film was inspired by traditional comedy
having been killed by quote unquote woke culture
and laid up in the negative reviews on the far left.
So there's a certain irony in one of his films most passionate defenders
turning out to be left wing activist and documentarian provocateur
Michael Moore of all people.
Another person. No, no, you see, if I if I am critical
of one side of the political spectrum and somebody from that side
defends my movie, that means that my arguments bad
because it's literally all are fucking nothing in the mind of the SJW's
and movie Bob. See, Michael Moore, he liked Joker.
So that means that all of all of his criticism, it doesn't count.
Pretty sure there'll be a ton of people from all over the spectrum
who like Joker because Joker is not fucking what we already know this.
But but the people who really hated it, there's a good chance
we know where they line up typically.
And there's nothing wrong with hating a movie. It's fine.
But I think the Todd was probably right.
And the whether or not Michael Moore likes the movie
doesn't really take away from his point.
But all Bob said was that it's ironic for
a movie for fucking.
More to be the one who Michael Moore is.
Can you guys tell me who this person is?
I know you don't want to know what a documentarian is.
Probably what he'd want to be known as.
About what? What did he make a documentary on?
Lots of different like issues in general.
Lefty filmmaker.
I've not actually watched any of his documentaries, so.
But he's in Team America.
Look out for me.
Yeah. The only thing you need to know is that he's really fat.
OK. Really?
Fortunately, from the same.
He is Michael Moore.
He should be Michael less, but.
Nice. You did a Rex.
Yeah, fucking slid that. Yeah.
Slid that in like a side of bacon.
Slid that. Boom.
Grease that pig up and put the Instagram after screaming of the film
at the New York Film Festival to declare that he had witnessed
a cinematic masterpiece.
Oh, how fucking painful must that be for Bob?
To have Michael Moore say that it's a masterpiece, damn.
Can you just tell us about the movie, though?
No, get the politics stuff done.
This is this is Bob.
This is probably just like the fucking way.
It's going to be halfway through.
He probably talks about the movie.
Peace and that contrary to the supposed societal dangers posed by the film,
the greater danger to society may be if you don't go to see this movie
because the story it tells and the issues it raises are so profound,
so necessary that if you look away from the genius of this work of art,
you will miss the holy shit.
Michael Moore really did like this film.
Wow. Michael Moore really did like it. Wow. Yeah.
Gift of the mirror.
It is offering us in a subsequent post more with further.
The team America. Oh, my goodness.
I didn't know there was a pop in his movie, Bob.
Like he's like, he's so petty.
It's like, I can't do that shit on purpose.
Is it not hilarious that a fat guy is making a fat joke
about somebody else who's not as bad as him?
If he was anti joker,
I don't think Bob would have pulled this picture up, would he?
Fuck no. No.
But yeah, it's still pretty funny because we were just talking
about the team miracle.
Yeah, there he is.
Relaborate Joker makes it clear
we don't really want to get to the bottom of this
or to try to understand why innocent people turn into jokers
after they can no longer keep it together.
No one wants to ask why two smart boys skipped their fourth hour
AP French philosophy class at Columbine.
So the act was a little loud.
Yeah, it's a second way. Yeah.
OK, I'll move it away.
Fine. Hi, to slaughter 12 students and a teacher.
No one would dare ask why the son.
Yeah, Mike, I'm going to cut you off right there, because yeah,
we actually do know why the two kids at Columbine do do tell us.
Oh, God. Did it because they made videos
and wrote it down in journals beforehand.
The fucking thing is the whole
that gives you the whole picture, you dumb shit.
So as evidence by their writing, so I can't believe we're on this topic.
Holy shit. But all right.
This is a movie, Bob.
Video as evidence by their writings, homemade videos
and other materials recovered after the 1999 Columbine massacre.
Shooters, Eric Harrison, Dylan Kelbold, were known
racists with interest in white supremacy
and neo-Nazi ideology who specifically targeted minority.
I thought I thought Moles point was how did they get to that point?
But. So, OK.
Yeah, just to clarify, right.
So Michael Moles says we need to check out Joker
and take it seriously as an example of how people become jokers.
And he referenced the Columbine Shooters like how did they get to be who they were?
And then things rebuttal is they a white supremacist racist neo-Nazis.
And it's like, yeah, OK.
Like, assuming that's true, because I don't know anything about this.
But when you want to know how that happened.
Yeah, right. There's there's like, you don't want a Nazi, right?
I didn't. I haven't checked exactly.
Oh, OK. Apparently.
Both of the killers had radically were radically different individuals
with vastly different motives and opposite mental conditions.
Hot headed, depressive, suicidal, blaming us of the problems.
One of those challenge.
They had a psychiatric problem.
I mean, because I just
I just googled this here and it's it's coming up with all sorts of other stuff.
But OK, sure.
Let me control F Nazi doesn't show up.
Let me control that white.
Doesn't come up.
Well, maybe this is just a bad article.
Who knows? I mean, I just I don't know.
Like in the spirit of the of the argument here, I'm not even looking at the details.
I figured that Moore's point was more so.
How do these people get created in the first place? I don't know.
Yeah, it seems really weird that we're talking about this in a.
I got to. Yeah.
Anybody who's just joined the stream, this is a Joker review.
I know. It's like we haven't even talked about it.
For you to talk about us going on tangents.
At least I was involved. Scooby doo.
I mean, implication here that like, well, this is what causes they were racist.
Boom, done. Like, OK, so anyone like taking out mental illness,
like anyone could kill someone just because they have like radical views.
Like not everyone who has radical views, like Nazis and whatever,
is going to go out and kill.
Sometimes they're just assholes.
Sometimes they're just they just have poison.
They're just a toxic person, toxic, nonviolent person.
You know, right?
We're like, it's like, oh, you're a Nazi cause of everything.
Like, like you got to think about this because like you also think about
people who read the Quran and like and follow it to the letter and don't.
And, you know, it's like they're who are really
like repressive of the people around them because of what they believe.
But they're not violent.
And they're not they don't do go out and do crazy shit.
They just they just cut an asshole.
You got a whole fucking spectrum of this shit.
And I mean, you guys you guys remember back in 2017.
You guys know
the year that the last jet I came out.
Yeah, you guys remember forever.
Shall it be known?
He and he and he and four other people were shot.
Steve's cases of the US, the Republican congressman.
He was shot by a really big Bernie supporter, right?
Now that that's shit right there.
Oh, man, I bet a lot of you don't remember that happened.
But remember that that did happen.
But oh, if it just whenever it seems like one of the sides do it,
it's always downplayed. Hush, hush.
Don't talk about it. It's not a big deal.
Don't worry about it.
But man, we got to dig up every little thing we can get on the other side.
It's just some just some like this.
But I don't forget, I guess.
Problem is, this is weird to bring up in a fucking Joker video.
Yeah. And you might be like, what do you mean?
He had to because Michael Moore did it.
It's like you brought up Michael Moore.
Like why movie Bob is like super political
and everything is through the lens of social justice and class warfare
and eugenics and shit like that.
So movie Bob has got to find a way to like this.
We've got to find a way to put his ideology
into all this stuff that he does.
And if it's a movie review, got to find a way.
Everything in that description, you just gave him this dude
as to why Joker is a good film.
I mean, no, no, no, he's got a following to pander to this one.
I got to show everyone that Nazis are bad is like, yeah, we know.
But there are no Nazis.
I mean, you could bear he could very easily push the narrative.
White man bad with.
Oh, my God, Thomas Wayne.
And look what the rich white man did to the poor guy that had mental illness.
And look what it did and look how it just destroys society.
We need to, you know, destroy the patriarchy and all the white men.
He could totally use that narrative as being a positive order.
But he doesn't.
The Joker wasn't black, though.
He wasn't female. So I can count.
Genuinely, if the Joker was black, the discourse would be completely different.
Oh, absolutely.
It would be insane.
You can't just you can't just flip a flip a race like that.
And I have it mean the same thing.
It should. It should. Right.
But it not anymore.
Everything's got to be, dare I say it, colored in something
that's that's deep and symbolic or it.
Things can't just be what they are. Right.
So is he offended that the.
You know, black on.
Well, well, this is well, in the first video that we covered from movie, Bob,
he was talking about Joker.
He said that basically all of all of the the white male problem
that Arthur has in the film are the result of a woman.
Right. It's like the film was essentially saying
that the cause of all your problems are it's all because of a woman. Right.
It's just these wild, wild takes like how TYT
said that, you know, Joker has a problem with black women. Right.
They just these insane, huge galaxy brain level takes that you just can't.
You wouldn't have even thought of they wouldn't have entered into your mind at all.
But they just they just pull them out.
And I think one of the reasons why a lot of especially left leaning people
seem to not like the Joker, right, is because the Joker skirts
really close to that line talking about the richer evil
and normal people are just are oppressed and it just pushes that.
And there's nothing bad about the other side, right?
Joker teaches us that misunderstandings come from both sides and that
even if you're if you're on the bottom, you're on the top,
no matter which side of the economic ladder you're on.
Not ladder, which the scale you're on things, you know,
you can take things too far and you can do bad stuff.
And just, you know, not everything is excused because of, you know,
that kind of situation.
But the movie very easily could have been changed
to where it clearly portrayed one side as being the bad guys.
And the other side is obviously being totally the victims.
And I think that they're kind of resentful of the fact that it didn't do that.
That Joker could have been a very, very popular film
that portrayed the kind of thing that they wanted to see, but it didn't.
And so you end up with reviews when they talk about Michael Moore.
All right.
But I mean, it's it's Bob's take that there's nothing to say about this film.
So like, I guess this is tying into the idea that he's just like,
I mean, I'm just just talking about what I can
because it's just this film's nothing bigger than, you know, I guess.
He's like cherry picking to make his point, which doesn't make sense.
I mean, he hyper targeted.
Like I said, this is just inappropriate, but, you know, fine.
This is what he wants to talk about.
I guess what happens next?
Can in the irony of him and the irony of the second paragraph here,
subsequently also ignored by Michael Moore's film Bowling for Columbine,
which instead redirected focus to the political and economic issues
that are the focus of most of Moore's other films.
Jeez, no self-awareness there, Bob.
Oh, I know who this person is now.
Mm hmm.
But the Bowling for something movies.
Yeah, I never watched them, but I know the cover.
Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah, Chris.
I'm waiting for it to continue.
But anyway, the fact that I was overwhelmingly certain that Joker
was not, in fact, about the things Michael Moore was describing to it
in any meaningful way, though.
Oh, so Mr.
Subjective just said someone else's meaning they drew out of it
isn't actually there.
Strong.
I like this is this is part I get really fascinated, right?
Because we lay out this sort of framework and they they'll come at us
with like not fucking nonsense.
It's all subjective.
You cannot deny someone else's experience in the same fucking breath.
You have people like movie.
Bobby and like the film isn't remotely about what he thinks it's about.
It's like, oh, OK.
Interesting. Yeah.
Simple as that, man.
It really bothers me.
So fucking hypocritical, but all right.
Because he said it with any in any meaningful way as well.
Like, I'm sorry, you can just define the amount of meaning is in a thing now.
Sure.
In fact, about the things Michael Moore was describing to it in any meaningful way.
Those of you who've seen my review of the film, of course, know that I was not a fan.
For me, only serves to highlight one of its most curious qualities,
that it's a film comprised almost entirely of surface level texture, aesthetics,
visual cues, needle drops, soundtrack, auditory mood notes, allusions
to contemporary social topics and politics.
But with all of them decoupled from any inherent meaning that they typically
possess and none of it unified by any cohesive theme.
That was a long sentence.
So good.
He's talking to me.
He's in the.
Again, if breathing was no reflex, people like him would be dead.
What the fuck are you making me watch?
Look, he I'm trying to think about how I can condense this for him.
So every element of the filmmaking that's not the writing, but also including the
references to political question mark, like stuff, I don't know, all of it
isn't tied together in any meaningful way.
I think that's what he said.
Oh, sweetie, just all by the way, surface level texture.
Duh.
Oh, I know what you mean.
Yeah, but I also I just find it amusing because it's kind of how I feel about
TLJ, I'm like, oh, yeah, it's pretty much all surface.
But he would be like, no, the flames.
I guess it's just the fact that Joker is it's so simple.
Really, it's offensively simple rags, offensively simple.
It's like, how come everyone gets this, but the galaxy brains on YouTube?
How did this guy become popular?
Like, what was the video that did it that maybe he got in or not even convinced we
can classify him as popular anymore?
Like, what kind of view count does he get on these videos?
Let's have a look.
Let me take a look.
People are subscribing to this guy and listen and watch his content.
And this is 61K views and he's sharing the platform with Yahtzee.
Yeah, this is Escapist.
So he's on a channel with one point one five subs, but.
What about his channel?
Does he have a channel?
Yeah, he does. OK.
My brain already hurts.
He's pulling between 10 and 15K on each video.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure this is evidence of him having I think he sank popular in
popularity, so I'm pretty sure he's more popular than that once upon a time.
His last video is.
Martin's Martin Scorsese versus himself.
Let's stop talking about real cinema.
Seven hours, 11000 views.
So. Oh, well.
Wait, he made a seven hour video.
I think it's less so that he's super popular.
Most of it just never goes away.
He's like the creature of the Internet that was and he never changed.
How many times he comes back?
I was going to say that you have to like just cut their head off
and like destroy it and then they still grow another head.
Because he's been making videos that look exactly like this for a long time,
like as long as I can even remember it being on the Internet.
He hasn't evolved like at all.
He's literally nothing critic.
Well, he's like he's the quintessential example of being stuck,
being caked inside your own point of view where you can't possibly
fucking evolve in any way that's actually that's actually cake.
He's trapped in cake.
Oh, I thought it was a gelatinous cube.
He is the king in the last Jedi, but he doesn't find any meaning in the Joker.
Are you fucking shitting me?
Yeah, that's the crazy.
Well, this is the thing.
Like we have this fascinating arc on our show where we have to deal
with all the stuff.
Now again, so many of the regulars who love T.L.J.
not getting Joker.
And it's like, what happened to you guys?
Like, why why didn't you use that shovel that you use to dig
30 feet down into the dirt to just squeeze those themes out of the last Jedi
and twist that film into trying to be meaningful and to make sense?
Oh, we can do that.
No problem.
But yeah, with all these stuff like Joker, they can't do it.
Yeah, T.L.J. was made by a fat neck idiot for fat neck idiots like this,
like capital, like like because I guess like there are certain themes
in that movie that aligns with their their political beliefs.
And I guess that's all they need to like for that to be a good movie.
Like, oh, oh, capitalism bad.
You can't tell by bullshit that shit.
That's all I mean.
Failure is the greatest teacher.
OK, it just seems like with the last Jedi is everything.
It's just like it's so shoved down your throat in your face.
Like capitalism, bad animal rights.
Let's abandon the orphans.
But with the Joker, it's like this guy has a hard life.
He has a hard day.
He goes to work.
He comes home.
He takes care of his mom.
He doesn't get to do the things that he wants to do.
And then finally, when he does, it's all the bad stuff.
And it's like this guy just had a bad day after a bad day after a bad day.
And he had to work hard and nothing paid off.
Nothing was handed to him like how it was with Rey, like it was with Rose, like Finn.
Everything just gets handed to those people.
Even when shit doesn't go right for them, they still end out on top.
Whereas Joker, he ends out on top.
But the world's burning around him.
And I think all these people, they just haven't had a hard day.
They just don't understand the concept of shit gets bad sometimes.
And you have to deal with it like a fucking grown up.
And they don't understand that.
And it blows my mind how stupid and naive people are about real life issues.
Genuinely why we have trouble associating with characters
that don't experience any trouble.
We'll all just sit there like, wow, that must have been nice.
It blows my fucking mind how just people like this exist.
Anyway, it was difficult to get over that sentence, Bob.
Fire the next one at us.
As and none of it unified by any cohesive theme.
In other words, a movie that in certain key points looks or feels like it has something to say
or might even be about something.
But in fact, the Joker is not about anything.
Like I said, it might be about something like, wow,
so generous.
I can't relate to it.
It's about nothing.
Oh, my God.
This guy, Bob, or had to struggle.
Could you imagine movie Bob trying to do what the Joker did running after those kids?
He would probably know.
No, hold on.
Hold on.
Yeah, you actually have to stop as soon as you say the word running.
I was going to say beyond his little scooter.
He'd be like, stop right there.
Imagine him rolling.
Maybe you have leg privilege.
Oh, my God.
Can you imagine Bob rolling like like the one of those stupid things in the prequels called
the droids that roll or they call destroyers?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Like, could you imagine if he was rolling around like a droid after after the kid?
See, I was picturing him on the on the scooter because the kids then shoved the side into
the wheel of the scooter and it cracks and just falls over.
He's like, Oh, no, until until he falls.
And then the camera pans out and he's just on the floor crying like why?
I'm sorry.
I'm just imagining instead of Joker, it's just Bob.
The only thing in my head is like movie Bob, like seeing people steal his things.
And then he like folds up and starts rolling out with the Terminator theme in the background.
And if your heart is breaking, eat even though your arm is quaking
in your artery, I feel like maybe he would like this movie if we if we get it made.
What do you say, Bob?
We're not exactly interested in funding it, but we support you funding it.
I want to see Robert do it.
Come on.
And in the trailer, you have like Morgan Freeman or some just famous voice being like,
what makes a man a movie Bob?
Morgan Freeman narrating movie Bob's life.
It could be just like can be just like March of the Penguins, but with a lot more fat.
March of the Bob.
March of the Bobins.
Bob drinks his Bob drinks his coffee with Twizzlers.
I'm not one to judge.
Oh, my God.
Maybe you should lay off the sugar, Bob.
I can imagine Morgan Freeman just having a snarky ass commentary over the whole thing.
No, it reminds me.
Did you guys watch The Office?
Which one?
I'm American.
Steve Girl.
I've seen a couple of episodes.
I haven't seen the whole thing.
Oh, yeah.
Come on, guys.
There's this one episode where he it's a continuous thing that he's been filming his
like secret agent movie for like 11 years.
So on the last season that he's on it, he finally is showing everyone the movie.
And so he has the black guy in the office narrating it.
And so at the end, it shows that it's him and he has his hair all dyed white.
And he's just kind of mouthing what the black guy's narration is.
And he's like, oh, this is why I know so much about this character because I am him.
And so I'm just picturing movie Bob sitting there with Morgan Freeman's voice.
And then it turns around and it's movie Bob just mouthing while Morgan Freeman's voice
is coming out of his body.
You have to watch the episode to understand this reference.
I do want to watch The Office.
I only hear good things about it.
It's very good.
You should watch it before it gets taken off Netflix.
Wait, is your Netflix the same?
Do you even have that one?
Oh, yeah, I guess Netflix changes based on region, right?
So maybe.
Yes, I found out that.
Pirate Bay, Pirate Bay, Pirate Bay subverts your expectations all day.
Pirate Bay is great.
I would never suggest anyone partake in those disgusting,
him dishonorable thievery.
That is the power of people to never sharing.
Sharing is carrying rags.
Would never I would I disavow sharing is caring.
I got to cover us legally.
I mean, by that logic, if you borrow a DVD from your friend or they give it to you
because they got another copy that's stealing the movie and download
the same shit.
You wouldn't download a baby, would you?
I do all the time on Sims.
I load babies down into the garbage disposal occasionally sounds like it's saying something,
but then isn't fully get at what I'm saying requires describing basically the plot of
you know, it would be really useful for Bob if instead of just saying
it doesn't say anything, it doesn't say anything.
He's like, here's what people say.
Here's why the movie doesn't have anything to do with that.
Or the movie isn't giving this message.
He hasn't really explained any of his points yet.
He's just made declarations without giving any context to it.
Well, this is kind of what we get out when we're like, yeah, these these videos are under
fucking 20 minutes.
Sure.
And the way the dreaded long and so you don't want to do anything longer than that.
But she doesn't fucking said anything yet.
We're still waiting.
Like was oh, yeah, me and Rags watched a high tops video on endgame.
I actually agree with the majority of his points in it.
Holy shit.
He can take a while to get to saying stuff.
Yeah, he's editing shit too.
But I mean, well, do you mean script editing or video editing?
No, no, you know, the noises and the audio and the pacing.
See, I'll give you that sound as annoying as hell.
But I think it's video editing.
I want to I want to say his video editing is pretty good compared to what you usually get,
which is like on a technical level.
Sure.
But it's like the decision making of how to edit the video is awful.
Just high top.
Stop using those warm sounds, please.
I beg you.
Less is less is more.
Anyway, back to Bobbitt.
Being something but then isn't to fully get at what I'm saying requires describing
basically the plot of the film and its major events.
So as quickly as possible.
Bullshit.
Oh, Jesus Christ, dude, this is a plot of Joker.
You were lower the side of the pain.
The sound of the pain.
You were warned.
But the beginning of this video, this is dangerous video territory.
You were warned.
Okay, you were warned.
This version of the Joker starts out as a guy named Arthur Fleck,
who is poor and miserable because he suffers from a neurological condition of initially
unknown origin that causes him to suffer fits of uncontrolled laughing in inappropriate
situations.
He lives alone in an economically stagnant 1980s.
He does a little, but he's got any fucked it up.
He lives.
Is he about to say he lives alone with his mother?
Is that what he's about to say?
Because he's got a picture of like the mom, you know, from Seymour's mom,
which is comparable.
So he knows condition of initially unknown origin that causes him to suffer fits of
uncontrolled laughing in inappropriate situations.
He lives alone in an economically stagnant 1980s Gotham City with his ailing mother works
part times.
Yeah, there it is.
How do you live alone with his mother?
How do you say that?
He actually said it's automatically correct to say that two people can live alone.
I don't think so.
Mothers aren't people.
Oh, shit.
Sorry, I can't believe it.
Wow, you devaluing motherhood.
That's disgusting.
You're not the feminist.
That's not what a feminist looks like, Bob.
Yeah.
Or maybe he's just saying women in general don't count as people.
And so therefore any man that lives with a woman lives alone.
I'll meet him halfway and we'll say that they count as three fifths of a person.
Three fifths?
Can we?
Yeah, we agree.
Yeah, but still that would mean he's a good compromise.
Quite.
Yeah, I think it's a good compromise.
And just to clarify, how many people does Bob count as?
Is it 17?
He counts as six fifths.
Of a person.
Six fifths.
Yes, he's definitely six.
He can count the turkey under my titties.
That's my snack holder.
What, your hand, Bob?
No.
How dare you refer to it that way?
My right hand is not called hand.
It's called Maurice.
See, that's cultured.
That is cultured.
Oh, he lives alone with his mother.
This is Mr. Eugenics.
Thank you so much.
Oh, yeah.
A lot of people keep repeating that.
I don't know if this is just known.
Is it that he either used to or is in his mother's basement, like unironically?
Is that his, like, thing?
Really?
Like, people repeat it a lot.
And I don't know if it's true, because I'm going to source.
Well, I hope it's true.
I hope it's true.
I hope it's true.
It'd be the greatest thing.
Bob would consider that virtuous and noble.
And you can't understand.
He just, he's too busy making this incredibly intellectually stimulating, deep content.
He can't hold down a normal crappy job like the rest of his mortals can.
He has to do important things, like make movie critiques.
I don't know if he gets enough of a view count to be able to live in, like,
well, if he's with a mother's basement, it's not going to be that expensive.
What about, does he have a Patreon or something?
I think somebody said he does.
And it's really sad to look at.
Oh, let's do it then.
Movie Bob.
Of course I love women.
My mom lives with me.
Women are awesome.
I would go absolutely insane if I had to live with my mother still.
That would actually make a bit of sense.
Like, he really wants to tell people that he lives alone.
So he just pretends that his mom isn't a person.
Oh, wow.
Dude, he projected that onto his video.
He takes 100 a month.
Yeah, that's a, I didn't expect that.
3,600 from Patreon a month.
All right, Bob, that should be enough.
Oh, when you said sad, I thought it was going to be something like pathetic.
Yeah, it's the other kind of sad.
That's not sad.
That's really disappointing.
But then people said Patreon.
And I was like, oh, okay, is Patreon sad?
Meaning it probably like $1 a month type of thing, but $3,600 a month?
What?
I mean, sometimes people need to be told the Joker doesn't mean anything.
Are you telling me that people willingly give Bob $1,600 more?
Actually, no, more like $2,000 more a month than I make working 40 hours a week.
Dude, have you?
A lot of stupid people have wallets.
You need a different job.
Have you put out a video saying Joker's meaningless?
No.
Guess not.
Yeah, get fucked.
You ain't balling like movie fat.
Movie fat.
How could you say that, Chris?
Anyway.
So, movie Bob thinks that Joker lives alone with his mom.
All right.
Good, good stuff, Bob.
Lives alone in an economically stagnant 1980s Gotham City with his ailing mother,
works part-time as a clown, and dreams of becoming a stand-up comedian,
and performing on the locally recorded Murray Franklin late night talk show.
During a particularly bad series of events,
Arthur shoots and kills three mean drunken investment bankers from Wayne Enterprises
Corporation who are bullying him on the subway,
which seems to trigger the beginning of a psychotic break,
and gives him the confidence to pursue a romantic relationship with his pretty neighbor.
Not a psychotic break.
I don't think so.
Yeah, if anything, this sort of coincides with a lot of other things happening,
one of those things being of the lack of availability of his medication.
Yeah, there's a couple of things that happen at once.
Yeah, it's not a thing, right?
There's a lot of stuff going on at once.
It's his mother's situation.
It's his work situation.
People just don't understand that it's more than one thing.
It's like a little thing, and a little thing, and a little thing,
and they all add up to this one big thing that makes you explode, like a normal person.
Nobody just loses it on one thing.
Well, maybe if that one thing is a huge thing to happen.
But it's just, he's having a bad day.
One thing happens on this day.
Another thing happens on this day.
And it's like, things add up.
How do you not understand that?
That's a normal thing that happens in real life.
Yeah.
Wolf, you probably remember this better than I do.
What happens first?
Him imagining that she comes to his apartment, or him killing the people on the subway?
Say that one more time.
I think she comes to his apartment first, right?
What I'm trying to figure out is, did he imagine the relationship with him?
No, no, no, no, it had to be first, because he follows her to work.
And then it's shortly after that, that she comes to his apartment.
And it's immediately after killing the guys on the subway,
that he pretends that he walked into her apartment and started kissing.
And makes that happen.
Therefore, his psychotic break, if you're going to call it that,
for imagining who happened actually before the subway, not after the subway.
All right.
Just clarifying there with Bobbitt, he seems to have a different opinion.
You know, it's not that it's provably wrong.
It's a different opinion.
Which seems to trigger the beginning of a psychotic break,
and gives him the confidence to pursue a romantic relationship with his pretty neighbor.
Because Arthur was wearing his clown makeup at the time,
it also creates an urban legend of an anti-greed killer clown vigilante hunting down Gotham's 1%.
Which inspires billionaire Thomas Wayne to run for mayor on a law and order platform,
and in turn inspires an underclass revolution clown mask protest movement.
Arthur subsequently learns that he's running for mayor before that happened.
I was actually about to ask,
was he announced for mayor before the subway killings?
Yeah, because they ask him in an interview about like the clown.
Right?
The clown thing happened.
Start wearing the clown mask and everything because he calls him a bunch of clowns.
Yeah, which, yeah.
Because the night that he gets the gun and he accidentally shoots the wall,
him and his mom were watching Thomas Wayne on TV.
Remember, she's saying, oh, you know, he's such a nice man.
He's going to help us.
And he's like, no, he's not.
Like, why do you care so much?
Yeah, I think that's right.
Damn.
So just to clarify, people give us shit for doing too much.
Like, oh, they just recant the plots.
Like, at least we can.
I didn't realize it was such a hard ability, but you know, getting there.
His mother used to work for Thomas Wayne had an affair with him
and that Arthur is actually Wayne's illegitimate son.
But when he can punch both, dude,
geez, if I had been doing this for this long,
oh my God, don't you like improve over time?
Most people improve over time.
Well, this is the thing I'm not going to say.
He's like, God, we're just he's stayed exactly the same.
This video could have been made in 2006.
I wouldn't be proud of it.
That's insulting to videos made in 2000.
Yeah, I'm sorry.
Video creators of 2006.
I didn't mean that.
That's insulting to the guy who made the first YouTube video
where he was like, hey, guys, bye.
And just he I don't understand his train of thought.
He thinks that this entire thing is just about this.
Or is I mean, well, I guess he didn't even care about Thomas Wayne
until he finds out that information.
But he's he's just doing other stuff in life.
And then this just happens kind of on accident.
You know, he's dealing with work, getting fired,
having the relationship, you know, trying to be a comedian.
And then because his mom, it's just like that little annoying thing
that's happening in the background with his mom.
Oh, check the mail, check the mail.
Did he write? Did he write?
And then he reads the letter.
He's like, Oh, shit, is this true?
Then he starts pursuing it because he has nothing left.
So why is it 100% I thought that I thought that the idea was that
you could only infer that it might have happened.
The affair.
Yeah, I think after that, he has the whole trip to the trip
to the the loony bin there.
And they have all the records of all patients and everything like that.
So I think they kind of really stress that she's not telling the truth.
That's the impression I got.
Not lying intentionally.
Right. Like her maliciously rather.
She's not repenting the truth.
Apparently Sargon is in chat.
I can't see him, but people want me to know that.
All right.
Hello.
You must be interested.
I'm sorry.
He's a disaster.
Anyway, Wayne and the actual records about this,
it turns out that Arthur's mother was severely mentally ill.
Hallucinated her relationship, adopted.
He did the other upside down.
Shake that lady upside down.
Max mental illness.
I know it.
But Arthur, to make her fantasy feel more real and then neglected him,
being violently abused by her real partners,
causing the injuries that led to his neurological damage.
Oh, my God.
Stop using these sound effects like you're never left 2010.
Jesus Christ.
This is trying to tell a story, but giving absolutely no context.
It's like, come on.
He even left out the part where he goes to the house and messes with Bruce
and then meets Alfred and then goes and confronts Thomas Wayne,
then finds out all the information about his mom.
And it's all these stepping stones onto his descent into madness.
It's like, how are you just leaving out all of this fucking information?
Are you that dense?
Do you not understand this movie?
I feel like this is one of those things.
Have you ever watched a movie with a kid and like every two seconds,
like why they do that?
What's that?
What's that?
And they ask you like 10 million questions.
I feel like that's what it would be like watching a movie with him.
It's like you have to explain every five seconds what's going on
because he just doesn't understand it.
I also find it pretty, I don't even know what feeling describes it exactly,
but he's like, this person was beaten as the child to the point
where they have mental damage as an adult.
And then he puts wa wa after it and it's like, oh, okay.
Yeah.
Mocking them into the.
He's not a bitch boy.
Damage that's kind of fucked up.
Apparently he doesn't think that child abuse is a thing to talk about.
He thinks it's funny.
All right.
That's what he's going for.
He's like, oh, children get abused.
Oh, well, they're white.
It doesn't matter.
We can laugh at it in a movie.
Oh, he also realizes that he himself has been similarly hallucinating the romance
with his neighbor and learns that Marie Franklin has used a video clip of him
bombing at an open mic comedy night as the subject of the show.
Out of order again.
He doesn't realize or we don't know if he knew it the entire time or not,
but that's after that is so fucking far after he sees his little thing on the TV.
His mom has a fucking stroke because he goes off on her.
Then she's in the hospital.
Then he's watching the TV.
Then he sees the thing.
And then he gets the call from the people for that.
Oh my God.
It's hard to recall the movie.
Okay.
Movie Bob's trying.
I have seen this movie once the night it came out, which was what?
Two months ago now and it would.
Oh, oh, oh, this is making me mad.
It's okay.
It's okay.
He'll make you even more mad soon.
Probably my head hurts.
I'm going to go get Excedrin.
I will be right back.
He has that power to make people's heads hurt.
They've made memes about how many people he's killed.
I believe he killed Jay Longbone before, right?
You were on, you left while we were covering him at some point.
I think it was Efap 50.
He killed you.
How do you feel?
You got resurrected.
He killed me.
Wait, what?
If ever anyone leaves while we're covering a movie Bob video, it means he killed you.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, okay.
He did.
How about that?
He killed me before we even started the video.
Yep.
We'll die as well.
Yes, that Star Wars Wars girl.
Like I got a headache and I had to let I'm bouncing.
That was the thing is like the last time that I, or the only other time that I watched a movie
Bob video, it gave me a headache so bad that I had to leave the show.
Naturally.
I mean, uh, out of just said she's getting something for headaches.
So, you know, it's only a matter of time.
Just the idea is to don't dose yourself too high of a movie Bob at a time.
You just got to take it easy.
The identity of the jowls create a super sonic wave.
Yeah, that hits you.
I just don't understand.
Because I mean, all of us make videos, right?
So there's always those people that comments like you said this wrong on this part of your video
at this second.
And it's like, holy fucking shit.
I pronounced a name wrong.
Oh my God.
I mean, embodiment of evil, but it's like, if people just do that, you know, our videos,
it's like, what do people do when they watch movie Bob?
It's like, bro, you, you're not even getting the, you know, chain of events.
Correct.
Like, won't people just destroy him in the comments of this break?
Because it only matters with the messages.
My head.
Does he, is he one of those people that censors his comments?
I'm going to assume not.
Have you ever tried reading comments?
I'm going to, where's the link to this actual video?
I want to go read the comments and see if anyone called him out on how stupid this shit is.
Well, is, uh, bottom right is, uh, in the little thing you can see.
Bottom right of what?
Watch together.
It'll have the video and you can click that and it'll take you to the actual one.
But, um, yeah, he's, he's been, uh, he's been called out before.
Um, I think he, like I said, he, people don't really like him on the escapist because
he's terrible.
So, like, they got their double escapist, they got their double escapist content.
That is just like, Oh, no.
What?
Oh, no.
What, what is it?
Is he going to pay something in a moment?
It's going to give us context.
I'm excited.
He's wearing a candy corn KKK hat.
Oh, he's going to be stretching them.
If he puts all that weight on them, be careful.
Bob, you only get one set.
Candy corn helmet.
Got something.
Big old.
Just shakes and donuts and cubes.
Um, anyway,
bringing to appear as a guest on the Franklin show with the aim of committing an on air
suicide, but he is instead riled up by the surprisingly positive reaction of the audience
and an outside mob of clown master protesters to his off the cuff rant against the madness
of society that he murders Murray instead.
Wait, wait, wait, he skipped.
He skipped the movie.
He skipped like 45 minutes of the fucking movie.
It's fine.
He literally is going fine.
He's doing it because this movie means nothing.
He missed the whole entire thing about how that he's running away from the cops because the cops
came to the hospital and talked to him about his mom because they're they think that he,
you know, is the guy that shot the people.
They skip the entire part about him and, you know, his old coworkers coming, the sleazy guy
that betrayed him and then the little midget guy.
And it shows that he actually, you know, even though he's going to kill people,
he still has morals because he's like, Oh, you were the only one in this entire,
you know, movie that was nice to me.
And I had to make up other people that were nice to me.
And just how, how did he miss this?
How did he go from this and leave out all the information between, you know, this event
to this next event and the thought about killing himself and then leaving out
all the little information that's in his journal.
He left out the whole entire thing about not being on his meds anymore.
And the psychiatrist and how because that's how you plot summarize, you ignore the plot.
I want to have somebody listen to a movie Bob video and then I want to go.
All right, so tell me about it.
What happened?
What happened?
What what what was movie Bob's main point here?
What what was I mean?
All I've got to over so far is Columbine.
What's it?
I'm like, Oh, yeah, that happened.
Tell me what you learned from watching that movie Bob video.
That he cherry picks.
He leaves out so much information.
This is this is the example of, you know, when you were in like English class and you had to
read the book and then you had to have a discussion with the rest of the class.
And you know, write the synopsis and that was it.
Yeah, that's that's what this is.
He read some of the points.
He read a really bad, you know, little spark notes version of somebody that also read a
spark notes version and he's getting like fourth hand information.
And that's why he doesn't understand this movie.
I don't think he's seen it.
I mean, it's not even because we're almost to the power.
He's going to start making statements about the film.
Like this is where it's going to get really bad.
Probably.
Oh, boy.
Cruiser taking him to jail is destroyed.
And Arthur himself is rescued and revived by the army of clowns now destroying the city.
The Joker strikes a triumphant pose as not far away.
One of his self-declared minions stalks the Wayne family into an alley and shoots
Thomas and Martha dead so that Bruce can begin his journey toward becoming Robert Pattinson.
Like two years from now, the Robert Pattinson movie is not even connected to the Joker movie.
It's okay.
We can just assume that was a joke.
We'll just assume it was a joke.
This guy doesn't seem smart enough to understand that type of humor.
Well, how else can we deal with this?
He's trying to he's trying to explain ending of this movie in like a mocking fashion.
Like this is actually how they end it.
I'm like, no, but tell me what the problems are.
But that's not how it ends.
Well, I did say he's trying.
He was going to talk about the movie halfway through.
Like I was wrong about that, but he hasn't actually said anything yet.
They did it.
They did it.
Oh, my goodness.
I like that his lips hanged out as he floats along.
Incredible weight and his inability to physically.
Yes.
Yeah.
Remember when he goes to the people in the spaceship and like their bones are all
shrunk because they're all like just floating.
They're all super fat.
I feel like movie is from that generation of humans.
Movie Bob is in.
Confirmed.
I'm I'm doing saying that he's an advanced human.
No, no, they're not advanced.
The ship does everything for them.
Remember the pilot has to go above the computer to figure it out.
You're just jealous.
This is peak humanity.
Literally, the only thing I remember from Wally is at the end of the movie,
one of the fat people was like, let's plant pizza plants.
Well, which is not a bad idea.
Yeah.
If I could have a pizza tree, I would plant one.
I would, too, if that existed.
You know, I think there's a cheap for that on Sims.
There you go.
But then let's be honest.
Well, if you would plant the shit out of that.
Yeah, you'd plant that pizza tree.
Well, that's why I remember.
Let's yeah, actually.
Yeah, that's fair.
Anyway, let's promise coming in good this year.
Let's do it, Bob.
We're going to have pizzas all winter.
Thanks for taking me to the movies in this dangerous neighborhood, Dad.
Stop.
You can't go to this.
This is Teen Titans, right?
Oh, oh, my God.
You're about to call him the orange show.
Oh, Teen Titans.
How dare you use the oh, the only thing that's worse than this is so
the Titans show.
Which one?
The new one where Starfire is like fat and black.
Oh, yeah.
Oh, my God.
Just like at least make her fucking orange.
I don't care if it's a black actress, but just make her orange.
You can go find, you know, black cosplay girls that do like the most
legit Starfire cosplay.
And they just did that.
It's like, come on.
Orange Titan bad.
Oh, as you might have now surmised, there are a lot of different angles
from which to point out that this movie is extremely dumb.
What?
God damn it, Bob.
Even with what he described, what was dub about it?
It's a double attack.
I just want to have a conversation.
I want to.
I just want to ask him how he's getting from point A to point B,
because it just it's not.
It's just dumb.
It just just.
My head.
You don't understand because you're dumb.
Different angles from which to point out that this movie is extremely dumb
in a way that makes the self serious.
And if there's which it takes itself, particularly bad approach,
the wrong note, the loudest key all the way.
I think I might break.
It's happening again.
My head is starting to hurt.
Okay, everything that he just said about Joker.
I'm going to roll that on reverse to his video.
Okay, dude, your video is dumb.
There's no substance to anything that you just said,
because you provide absolutely no context.
All of the examples that you use are wrong and you don't get them
right. It's just my head, my head.
It hurts.
We're halfway through the video.
Yeah, we're making absolutely.
I just want to say that I like how movie Bob's visual style of putting shit
all over the screen is so reminiscent of Brett Keene.
He's going for the pop art aesthetic, but I don't know why.
This is like Brett's like child.
I imagine so.
I don't know which one is which one came first in like the ancient law books.
I don't know how to decide.
Yeah, it's hard to tell how old Brett is because he looks like he's 60,
but I guess he's only like 40.
It's true.
There are a lot of different angles from which to point out that this movie is extremely dumb
in a way that makes the self-seriousness which it takes itself particularly bad approach.
I'm sure the rigor that he would explain to us the plot inconsistencies
of the Joker would be the exact same rigor that he would use to explain
how The Last Jedi makes.
I don't even think he would go with plotings.
He's just going to focus entirely on the fact there's no meaning in the film.
I guess I'm entirely subjective anyway.
Like what does everything mean to you?
He's already taken away from bull.
I would love to hear him like actually start to say things like explain things in an object.
This is why objectivity is very important.
Make claims.
Show evidence for something that you think.
Explain to us stuff that's happening and tell us things, right?
Tell us why they're good, why they're bad.
Give a substance to pick a part.
He has just made statements.
He hasn't defended any of his points.
He's like, oh, well, this, this, and this happen.
The Joker is a dumb movie.
It's like, what?
It's a dumb movie.
Nothing happens.
There's no meaning in it.
It's empty.
I want to, someone made a meme.
Black Panther is alt right because it's anti-immigration, isolationist, pro-wool,
strict trade restrictions, anti-diversity, and ethno-nationalist.
And Bob has retweeted the picture and said, hey,
probably a good idea for you to watch the movie first.
It's like, oh, it's funny coming from you, buddy.
I don't know.
Whoa.
And a non-meme, but very nice note.
Here's a thing that's in the works, apparently.
I like your puppy.
One moment.
They're making a pop out rags.
Yay.
That's amazing.
Look, you got a little tongue.
That's incredible.
So you can, you can put them out.
Hey, Rags, is your tail fluffy?
Yes, it's very fluffy.
It's like a little cloud around back there.
That's really cool how someone's making a little.
So I guess you could, you could print it out on paper and you could fold it up
and you could put you put me on your desk so I can always stare at you and look at you and.
And advise you when you make a bad argument.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yes.
Oh, oh, oh, Rags.
I mean, you've had a button that had like your catchphrases.
Like every-
Tell me your secrets.
Oh, and you said hi, Rags.
And it said, hello.
That'd be cute.
Oh, my God.
You press a button and it says hello.
Well, then, eFap is you're going to want to keep an eye on efap.me
to see what every day is going to bring.
If this is, this is day one.
Is this like they actually make one and that's a picture or is it?
I don't know.
I don't know how deep this goes.
I don't know what the Delios here is a really cool project idea.
That's incredible.
Wonder if they'll have a long man or a wolf or pizza.
Oh, maybe.
That is so cute.
That is adorable.
It's hard to believe that we have to go from this back to movie, Bob.
Yeah, sorry about that, guys.
Obviously, I don't mean to do this to you.
I don't mean to torment you, folks.
Dumb in a way that makes the self-seriousness, which it takes itself particularly bad approach.
The wrong notes played in the loudest key all the way through.
You could literally start your what the hell went wrong with-
No, no, just pick one.
Just please, just pick one.
All of the things are wrong.
Which one?
All of them.
Tell us why, please, Bob.
This is a problem.
Tell us why something.
Not just that it is.
He's going to do it.
Tell us why.
He's going to do it.
I'm sure that.
Joker doctoral analysis in a hundred different ways,
and they'd all lead to the same breakdown.
But since I don't have all day, I'll use the one that jumps.
I think we had a- Are we on 540?
I'm on 542.
Yeah.
All right.
Let me-
Roll it back.
Drag my thing here.
So we're not even halfway through.
It's okay.
It's okay.
We can do this if we just stick together.
Teamwork.
Teamwork makes the dream work.
We're halfway through.
We're halfway through.
We aren't?
Oh, yeah.
I'm looking at a wrong number.
I saw the 42 and thought it was a 42 minute video.
Oh, God.
No, God.
Jesus.
All of these are through different ways,
and they'd all lead to the same breakdown.
But since I don't have all day, I'll use the one that jumps out at me.
Now I'm at 542.
42?
43?
No, I think you're mostly in sync.
You should be all right.
Okay.
All right.
Why does this movie take place in the 1980s?
Rags.
Would you like to field that question?
Why does this take place in the 1980s?
Well, there are some budget cuts in the 1980s
that were like mental health stuff.
So that was probably a good parallel there.
Yeah.
It's to do with Reagan, right?
Yeah.
Some cuts that were made to like mental health and stuff like that.
So that's probably one reason.
I happen to think that another reason is the lower security elements,
the ease of the crimes being committed.
I think cell phones, the talk show stuff.
A lot of this could take place in modern time, sure.
But yeah, I think it lends itself to isolation.
A lot easier with the lack of any kind of easy contact being set that far away.
But then we have the ultimate question.
Once we give all of those reasons, we're like,
why do you, why does it matter?
Like what's the problem?
Batman outfit looking good.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
This reminds me of that gripe.
I think I've probably said this before.
It reminds me of this gripe nostalgia critic had about District 9.
Like, well, why are the aliens aliens?
Why couldn't you just make a movie about people?
Because I wanted to.
That's why.
Shut the fuck up.
Because it's a fucking movie about aliens.
Why are there aliens in this alien movie?
It's like, well, fuck, I don't know.
Why are you just making a movie about black people?
Why didn't you send Joker in the future?
Yeah.
Why wasn't it set in the Stone Age, idiot?
Yeah.
How come Joker didn't take place during the Renaissance?
This is where I was just like, what's your argument here?
And fix the cropping on your fucking video.
Did you notice how stretchy it looks?
And I don't just mean minor annoying stuff.
Like there's no way Arthur Fleck is on seven psychiatric medications in the mid 80s.
And not basically comatose all the time.
That's not true.
Okay, okay.
Do you know the boogie tune it is on like fucking 10 medications?
The one I'm getting out there is the just because it's a large amount doesn't mean it's impossible.
My dad is on several medications.
Like this is not something that is impossible.
I don't know why you would highlight the like.
He should be coming down to the point.
He's finally gotten to the point in his video where he's starting to sort of say things that
are sort of a why.
But the first one is how come it takes place in the 80s?
And then he just has a Batman clip play.
Like no, no, no, no, no, no.
Tell it.
Explain.
Use words.
Use your thoughts.
Explain to us why it's bad that it takes place in the 1980s.
Tell us why that's bad.
Well, we passed that now.
Too bad.
I know.
And now he's going on to.
Now he's gone on to.
Are you telling me that he was on like seven medications in the 80s?
He's like, yeah, we we had pills and stuff in the 80s.
Yeah.
This was a thing that you could do.
What was the problem here?
As it always goes for Boogie.
I'm sorry.
I don't know anybody else who's like a famous YouTuber who has several medications as an easy
proof.
Like you can check this.
He's got a video about it.
I'm just saying this is a thing that happens.
And I don't know why.
What a non point.
And like, let's say, for example, that it was a rule that from doctors everywhere.
If you have any more than four medications, you die.
And he has seven in this movie.
I'd be like, I guess in this universe, you don't die when you have four.
Such a weird.
I don't know.
Yeah.
But it's like, what can you tell us?
Why the story doesn't make sense?
I know it's just it's like, oh, no, seven.
He has seven, seven medications and he's not even in a coma.
He's like, OK.
Oh, I remember there was this one analogy that
like when I was in college and we were talking about, you know, art criticism.
One of the things that my professor said that stuck with me was when somebody's, you know,
complaining about the curtains on the Titanic, they don't really have a valid argument because
it's the curtains on the fucking Titanic.
You know, it has nothing to do with what's going to with what's going to affect the end result.
So that's what I think of when people say little things like that.
It's like, OK, he's on seven medications.
You can argue that that did or did not exist at that time.
If you want to do your research, you could probably find that out.
But at the end of the day, I the medication, it doesn't matter the amount because he could
just be taking one pill and it's like, OK, he's taking one form of medication.
The amount doesn't matter.
The fact is when it comes into play is when he's talking to his two friends,
which are coworkers that the dude left out was that he's off of his medication and he feels great.
And, you know, the friends are alarmed by that.
That's the only thing that really comes into play.
If he's saying that it's a problem, he needs to explain why or does he have a reference?
Does he have a study?
I mean, all we can draw is that he's telling us that he should be comatose with his pils.
It's like, OK, I don't think that's true.
At the same time, he doesn't even know what those pills are.
Some of those pills could just be placebo pills that, you know, he drinks are working on him.
You know, and then aspirin, you know, he's he's taking aspirin.
Maybe he's taking something because, again, he was harmed as a child.
He's got, you know, some kind of brain damage.
He's probably taking something, you know, for his brain.
Maybe I don't know any little things.
And like you said, like, even if even if he was right about like in all these different ways,
stuff like, is that it?
He taking too many pills for you?
That's it.
That's what we're looking at.
OK.
Occasionally, in the mid 80s and not basically comatose all the time, because prescription
strength was a whole different context back then.
And they're imposing a 2019 opioid second medication context on an 80s setting or how
no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
There is no absolutely no evidence for any of that that he just said.
Yeah.
No evidence.
Even if he said prescription strength was higher back then prescription strength,
depending on the pill is like, how can you make this claim definitively?
Like, how could how could you possibly make the list?
Let's just say one of the pills he takes is, I don't know, 20 milligrams.
And nowadays, they only give you tens because it's too powerful or whatever.
It's like you could still just take 20 with the two tens put together.
It's like the idea that all prescriptions amounts have gone down since the 80s.
Thus, he should have been in a coma.
What?
We got some we got some boat curtains going on up in here.
I am not following you there, Bob.
Feels like like this is what I would call like grasping at straws to hate the movie
based on if based on a thing that if true is absolutely a nitpick.
He's supposed to be the one that hates us for that.
It's just this is his problem.
This is what he finds is, you know, the big plot hole in the movie is that
the amount of pills he's taking, which they explain.
He had a lot of trauma happen to him as a child.
So he's going to have problems growing up and he's going to have to take supplements for that.
It's like, yeah, not not a pharmacist or literally nitpicking,
not a pharmacist or doctor, but I'm almost certain that he cannot be right with his claim.
And I'm just a layman.
Like it doesn't sound like this could be right.
Plot point.
The idea that they may have had stronger prescriptions back in the day.
I'm not disputing that.
It's the idea that they were so strong that you die.
If you had seven pills, non-descript pills.
OK, like, you know, not all pills like you have anything to do with each other, right?
Like not all pills do stuff that would conflict your body.
A lot of stuff going on in your body.
A lot of pills that do all kinds of different sorts of things.
And also doctors, when they see what pills they're prescribing you,
they make sure that they prescribe medications that aren't going to,
you know, interfere and interact with each other in a negative way on your body.
There's this whole episode.
Did you guys ever watch House?
Yes.
Yeah.
OK, remember the episode where the blonde girl dies?
No.
Which one?
You don't know the bus accident?
The bitch.
The bitch.
Yeah, the yeah.
Yeah, OK.
Where Jane Doe one and he's he's like, oh, I need to find this girl
because something he's trying to remember, then he remembers.
And it's because he saw her taking this medication.
But because she was in the bus accident and they didn't know that she was on that medication,
they give her this other medication that reacts bad with medication she was taking.
So it kills her.
OK, so that would never happen when you're prescribing medication, you know.
Sorry, I'm just making a note that if you take seven pills, you die.
Then you die.
I'll go right into a video.
I think turns on what's essentially a video clip going viral, which didn't just happen back then.
I'm talking about the why of these.
Oh, I'm pretty sure there are people who have argued against this.
This is a common argument against the film that there was no like home video bullshit on TV.
That wasn't a thing.
And there are people who've argued that not only was there stuff like that,
but audiences would totally be on board with doing something like that.
That's nothing that we developed recently, like a reaction culture.
The idea that you're watching a show in the 80s and they're like,
we're going to play you a clip from a struggling comedian who embarrassed himself.
Do you really think the people at home be like, this is horrible.
Can't have this.
Oh, disgusting.
I mean, don't people remember America's Funniest Home Videos?
Well, the thing is, this is set in the 80s, is it?
This film?
Yeah, I thought America's Funniest Home Videos came out in the 80s.
Well, the thing is, I think it came out in the late 80s or something.
And it's just like, isn't that close enough to lend credence to this?
Yeah.
I mean, it's like people didn't have fucking cameras in the 80s at all.
They weren't taking home videos.
I mean, didn't he say on TV that one of his scouts was out there and filmed it?
And then that's how he got the video.
I'd have to rewatch it.
Well, I've got a lot of comedy clubs.
Yeah, I could picture that.
I mean, let's see.
We've got TV programs of 1981.
Dallas, MASH, The Jeffersons, Dynasty, Three's Company, Facts of Life,
Happy Days, 60 Minutes, The Love Boat, Magnum PI, Laverne and Shirley.
I mean, there's plenty of stuff that's going on.
Let's see if we want to do like this reality sort of shows.
Not to mention all of the game shows that took place.
Candid Camera, Queen for a Day.
Wait, Candid Camera was in 1981.
It was from Candid Camera started in 48.
And what's the premise of that show?
Candid Camera.
I think it's where there's just like a camera setup and it catches people.
Almost like punks.
You don't know they're being filmed.
Yeah, they put them in weird scenarios.
The fact that that exists, surely this functions as reasoning.
I mean, it's it's ridiculous to say that this couldn't happen.
It clearly could.
Because the other argument people make is that like,
nobody would do this to a man who's clearly mentally ill.
It's like, I don't think anyone in Gotham would have a shitty comedian.
And yeah, not that's the other fucking problem.
If you watch the footage, it would be the way the Murray is cut it,
or at least his team has cut it.
It's just the delivering the joke.
And to be honest with you, I don't even think it's that bad a joke.
It's Murray burns him straight after.
Like, I and I think, you know,
he doesn't involve all the context of the him laughing when he gets on stage.
But even if he did, you'd be like, oh, God, this guy is so awkward.
He's laughing in his own joke before he delivers it.
That's pretty much the natural assumption.
Instead of being like, this man is clearly mentally ill.
Help him.
Do not laugh at him.
Like, I don't I feel like that's a bit of projection because like a 1980s audience
would just be like, look at this failing comedian lol.
I don't think they take it much further than that.
Well, I mean, he's also leaving out the context of,
you know, the way that he views Murray as a father figure
and then the impact it has on when Murray is making fun of him on TV.
That's a pretty big thing that happens as to why, you know,
he does the thing that he does at the end.
I guess he's he's well, he's about to argue, by the way, that these things are problems,
but they don't matter.
At least that's what I thought I heard him say.
So I'm just gonna let him carry on back then.
I'm talking about the why of these issues.
You see, setting a movie out of time, especially in the recent past,
is a big undertaking.
It's probably where most of this movie's $55 million budget went.
Okay.
Remember the Dark Knight?
Remember, it's like, this is like earning money with what he just said.
This is like earning money.
This is such a non sequitur.
It doesn't even matter.
Why are you talking about you?
Do you get it?
Because he said the most of the money probably went on making the setting.
And then you have Joker from Dark Knight saying it's not about the money.
It's about sending a message, which doesn't.
You haven't told us why the message is bad.
You're the one saying that you can't identify.
You've asked us, but you haven't looked into it.
I'm giving him loads of benefit of the doubt here.
But maybe he's trying to say that it's the reverse for this film.
It's not about the message.
It's about spending money.
And even if that's the case.
Well, that'll be wrong, but I'm just saying.
There's no way this movie doesn't have a message.
It's just a stupid fucking premise from the beginning of this video.
Can a movie not have an aesthetic for its own sake?
Does the star, we need to have a reason to have things take place where they take place.
Well, he thinks.
Like this movie that takes place in Albuquerque.
It has to take place.
Those flaws he highlighted, he thinks that setting in the 80s meant those things were
flaws while if they were set now, they wouldn't have been.
Like the the candid camera sort of thing, plus the medication.
He made arguments that imply that if this was set today, those things would make sense.
But he's wrong.
He's looking to try and prove that the setting was done for whatever reason that gets in the
film's way.
But it's just the opposite.
But hey, at least we're actually getting arguments, though.
I appreciate both for making an argument, even if it's terrible.
OK, but I mean, OK, aside from the some of the costumes, the way that it's filmed,
you know, the the filter that they put on after, you know, post.
But with the city, I mean, the city didn't look too different.
And that's one of the great things about cities is you could just film it.
You know, I could go to San Francisco, go down a random street in San Francisco,
put on a costume, you know, or dress in 80s clothing, film it, put a little filter over
it to make it look like it's a camera that's from the 80s.
And there you go.
It's a movie from the 80s.
That's something that's great about cities is in a way, as long as you don't go downtown
where it's all ultra modern and the new part of the cities.
If you film in certain areas, you could do period pieces like this.
So I don't see what his big argument is.
And that's what it looked like.
There wasn't anything iconic about the, you know, the setting that where they filmed
aside from that one building where he goes in with Thomas Wayne, the opera house.
I mean, even now the stairs been made iconic thanks to this film, as far as I can tell.
Anyway, like people are going to this day is now just to take pictures.
It's not like they went and did all this, you know,
higher work with all of our budget into, you know, VFX.
They just went to different parts of New York and filmed and they didn't, you know,
I'm assuming they didn't remodel any of the buildings to make it look like it was from the 80s.
As I understand it, they used like a little bit of CGI in the buildings to like,
like the way they, you know, make it look like it was in the 80s.
Okay, that's actually pretty easy to do.
And for a film that didn't spend that much money relatively, this is very strange that he's like
given this burning money kind of imagery here, you know, man, they made a lot of money.
They made a crap ton of money for how little made a lot more money than Godzilla did.
I mean, it outperformed the Dark Knight made buddy.
Like that's pretty, that's a big deal.
Not to mention the outperform the Dark Knight with the role of the Joker,
which most people are like, you're not gonna be able to top Heath Ledger,
not making a claim that he did making the claim that it's a pretty tough role to come into.
But maybe, maybe Jared Leto made the, made it easier for him.
I don't know.
No, I got no beef with Jared.
It's all good.
I still haven't seen that movie.
Black text on a black background.
That's so incompetent that film is.
You have to change the backgrounds, use different lighting, dress sets down to tiny details,
get old cars, old clothes, old TV and video reference photos.
You literally alter the skyline if it's a real location.
All kinds of stuff.
There's usually a specific reason it has to be done.
Does he not understand that they have to every single movie and the way that
it's not where they're spending, what was it for like the Batman suit,
like 50 grand Bill making a Batman suit for what was his name?
The last Batman dude.
Ben Affleck.
Okay.
You get a, what you spend like a couple hundred bucks making
a little, you know, red suit for the Joker.
And also everything that he just complained about, about the setting and, you know,
the cars, you can find all of that in New York.
Guess what they did.
I guess in movie Bob's mind, unless there's a specific reason it cannot take place in
modern time of filming.
If you're a filmmaker who enjoys the eighties just as a fucking time and place,
go away unless you have a reason to put it there.
Yeah, it movies need to be shot at the contemporary time that they're being made.
Unless there's specifically as a reason it cannot be shot at that time because
your artistic vision or if you just like the aesthetic of that time period or
the attitude of the time is something you just can't.
I just think this guy doesn't understand everything that he just complained about is
things that aren't necessarily difficult to do,
especially in Hollywood where there's professional people that know how to do
this very efficiently and, you know, on a budget.
I want to highlight two things that I've just spoiled that are funny.
So first, a Bob Chipman tweet.
I don't know.
Well, this was made in 2017.
The best day that will ever happen to humanity will be the moment when physical
strength becomes meaningless and intellectual worth and creative vision
become the only measures of a human being to be considered.
That's the superior future.
Well, well, he shared a look because he's bad at both.
Doesn't that make you think like, oh, you were beaten up when you were younger,
were you?
Budget people beat you up.
I'm sorry about that.
I would just like to argue the point.
This fat loser would be like, I hope that in the future, strong people don't exist.
As someone that just moved, I sincerely appreciate people with physical
strength because this shit was heavy.
Yeah.
Well, they bullies.
They were bullying you by moving.
They were they were patriarching you.
I 100% will accept the patriarchy if they want to help with 60 pound.
Patriarchy is all good.
If you help me move.
Furniture out of a moving truck.
I am 100% happy and grateful.
Also, I guess you Bob doesn't understand the kind of like main.
I know movie Bob doesn't understand this, but maintaining a strong body
takes a lot of willpower and consistency and perseverance.
You know, it's it's not like, again, Bob had no fucking clue about any of this.
But they're the old they'll saying anima, sauna and core,
corpore sauna, you know, a sound mind and a sound body.
Like they're both two parts that are, you know, important.
You know, you want to have a healthy body because you're
you know, your brain and the way that you live and your health
that all comes together and it creates one whole you it's important.
Oh, and as as some time alone highlighted, I think we kind of went over it a little bit,
but there'll be in this there'll be an industry in Hollywood that's like we make old timey cars
so you can rent us out and we'll give you access to all of these same for costumes and everything
else. It's not as it's not like this built from the ground up and they've been to a cinder.
Every single film is made like, no, no, this stuff gets carried over and saved and everything.
I think it wasn't it. I only know this thanks to Red Lab Media.
But if the Star Trek episode is using like a bunch of stuff in like the Victorian era,
there's a good chance that a TV show was filming something Victorian in the area at the time and
that they just were able to grab a bunch of costumes and be like, yeah, now we can do this.
Also, apparently in Jeremy Johns review of Knives Out, he said,
another thing that Ryan Johnson's movies have in common is they're not as clever as he thinks they
are. Oh, that was that was such a fun thing to hear him say.
Come on, Efab, Jeremy, do it.
Someone actually posted that in the comments of I believe the Knives Out trailer
or trailer on that video.
The Knives Out trailer. Jeremy, call it Efab.
Jeremy, call it Efab.
He like answers it like, sure, like what?
Yeah, why not?
Anyway, carry on, Bobbitt.
In all kinds of stuff.
So there's usually a specific reason it has to be done.
A point that the story is making or frozen at 6 43.
Oh, my God.
Are you frozen?
That's that's that's a here.
That's again, a sequel.
So well, she's getting a lot of I just has.
What is Bobbitt ever said about the incels?
Because there's no way Bob's getting Poon Tang.
I mean, dude, no bullshit is so I thought you said he was married.
What?
What?
I thought you said no, I was curious.
I was wondering.
I don't know.
He's married to a he's a married to an Admiral Holdo doll.
Oh, my goodness.
Well, I mean, isn't there that Ryan Gosling movie where he like has a sex doll that he
takes around and pretends that's his actual girlfriend, maybe movie Bob?
That's an inspiration.
Believe I can't believe I ever feel sorry for a sex doll.
Imagine being film Robert's sex doll.
Just I can just hear the slap against the sex.
Oh, he calls it apparently.
He's posted pictures before of his basement apartment.
That's what he calls it.
His basement apartment.
My apartment's above ground because on his basement apartment.
I love the idea of Rags says I live above ground a move.
I was like, you above ground.
You think you're so much better than he is.
We're in a Phantom of the Opera mask.
Above the ground, they will learn nothing.
But in the darkness, I dwell my criticized movies.
Did you guys ever watch that Puss in Boots TV show?
No, no, no, no.
That's a thing.
That's a thing.
That is a thing.
Is it based off of the Shrek one?
Yes, it is.
Is it like funny?
Is it Shrek good or is it Shrek 3 quality?
And no, it's horrendously awful.
But there's an episode where there's mole people and there's a mole people kingdom.
And then the mole people, something happened to where the cat people were digging a well
and it led into the mole people land.
And the mole people want to take over the cat land.
But that that's and they've talked about, oh, above grounders.
I thought you were saying mole people.
They were around, so I'm, you know, wow.
He could be one of them.
That's shapest.
Silency.
She knows what she did.
I'm just picturing like how how does every day movie Bob has to wake up in his basement apartment,
have his mom make him breakfast.
He's like a 45 year old man or something.
I'm going to make sure to say basement apartment in Godel.
Basement apartment.
And he has to go online and play this this super intellectual holier than thou piece of
shit character essentially and act all big and bad and tough and super smart.
But he's he knows that he's doing this from a basement apartment
and that he's this fat slob who doesn't take care of himself.
And he's just this pathetic human being.
I must be really tough like to live with that every day, you know.
No, it's really where on a man's psyche.
It's what drove him to become Diabeto.
They will respect me now.
So who is Diabeto's counter?
Like Magneto's got Professor X.
So who's the exercise or the exercise?
It's like this treadmill.
He's going to give you a shot of insulin.
That is his arch-nosis.
The dieter.
Do you remember in X-Men 3 where they have those things that they take your powers away
when they get injected into you?
That would be insulin for him.
He'd be like, no, my power, my diabetes.
Instead, it takes his fat away.
And he just like shrivels.
He's just like, my sex is true.
Picturing the fucking creature from the moisturized creature from Doctor Who,
this deflated flap of skin with a face.
And it's just like, no.
There was an episode of Aquitine Hunger Force where Carl had like a parasite inside of him.
And he got really, really skinny.
And that's kind of how I picture Movie Bob with all of his powers sucked out of him,
all of his lard just squeezed out.
Professor exercise.
No, not my sickness.
All kinds of stuff.
So there's usually a specific reason it has to be done,
a point that the story is making or a portion of the narrative
that can only be conveyed in the sense of that temporal context.
Usually in a social, political, or historical.
Oh, it's not playing for you?
Yeah.
Just reload.
Yeah, just try reloading it.
Should work.
Is it up for you?
And I have to go.
Where did you leave Woffit?
I should automatically drag you if I do this.
Oh, shit.
Oh, OK.
OK, 640.
We'll go to 630.
Bars, old clothes, old TV and video clips,
match reference photos, digitally alter the skyline if it's a real location,
all kinds of stuff.
So there's usually a specific reason it has to be done,
a point that the story is making or a portion of the narrative
that can only be conveyed in the sense of that temporal context.
Usually in a socio-political or historical reference point.
But basically none of Joker's socio-political reference points
have any connection to the historical context they're being juxtaposed with.
Aside from the very, very, very blatantly connected one
that, by the way, like you'd think Movie Bob would know about it.
The whole social programs getting cut thing in the 80s.
I'm pretty sure, actually.
He might be a round man, but he's not a smart man.
Damn.
So the top comment on his video.
Why does this movie take place in the 1980s?
I don't know, Bob.
It's almost like that was the time when Reagan era budget cuts
gutted the nation's mental health protections,
leaving an entire generation of desperate ill people
thrown onto the street because society literally did not care about them.
The video clips did not go viral.
Yeah, they did.
Like, at least in a different way.
Like, it's different to think about, given our current time.
But before the internet, there was a huge hegemony of cultural interest.
Everyone watched the news.
Everyone read the papers.
Everyone watched the big game.
And almost everyone watched the big show of the night.
A la SNL, Johnny Carson, et cetera.
So if one of those people did that for a quick laugh,
and they did occasionally do that, then it would be seen by basically everyone.
The historical setting does not impact the theme or plot of the story.
Again, did you just forget that Reagan and the rise of moral majority was a thing?
Joker's whole thing fits neatly into the framing of large powerful government types,
telling poor, disenfranchised, and sometimes incredibly vulnerable people
that they just need to pull up their bootstraps,
buck up, and say no to drugs.
And if that didn't work, then they were just bum social parasites.
Yeah, he says, I know you have a lot of weird hang ups.
I know you have a lot of really weird hang ups about class,
but this is really basic, obvious stuff.
What is the thing?
He's not going to draw, connect.
This is his second Joker video, and he's not even going to put out a correction for that shit.
But whatever.
I guess we're going to take a minute to appreciate how wrong he is.
A moment of silence.
So I just kind of read you through here a little bit.
Let's see.
Someone said the least believable part of Joker is
that investment bankers would be taking the subway.
I mean, if they're drunk.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Who knows?
Who knows?
That happens all the time.
I mean, if you're heading home drunk with some friends,
and you're like, this is the fucking subway's going.
We could just go that way.
Home is fast.
Okay.
I mean, you don't want to drive.
You know what I mean?
I don't know.
It seems a bit weird.
Is he saying they should get a taxi?
Well, I mean, they could just be taking the subway from one bar to another.
You know, I didn't see any briefcases with them.
Bob likes to pretend all of his rhetorical questions don't have answers when they just do.
And he just doesn't give a shit.
So true.
Anyway.
But neither does that juxtaposition provide any meaningful counter-context.
The anti-rich people clown mobs are a joker-fied mashup of the Occupy Wall Street and Anonymous
movements, both of which were phenomenons of the early 2000s.
They don't make sense transposing to what we are, I guess, supposed to take as an
otherwise similar recreation of a 1980s city.
Yeah, there weren't there were writers in the 80s.
There weren't like protest movements in the 80s.
People protesting something happening here.
I'm going to go as far as saying that this has been a thing since there was societies of any
kind, civilizations.
There was groups of people who would want to potentially rise up and do something about it.
You don't have to reference like the fact that he's picked those two and said these are not
occurring in a time in which this film is set.
They're for bad.
It's like, no, no, that's not how that works.
I mean, it could be a compilation of different things.
I mean, Jesus Christ.
You wouldn't even at that point, you wouldn't even need to.
That's still fine.
So like, what prevents it from being in an earlier time?
Like, oh, literally nothing.
Like, oh, so why can't it be in this time?
Oh, I don't know.
I just don't want it to be like, okay.
What's one of those you just flip around and say, what's wrong with it being in this time?
Like, I'm going to go ahead.
What's the problem here?
My heart take.
This is fictional, this movie.
It's not actually a documentary.
So what I can't be just like, I'm sorry.
Red pill, black pill, incel, loser, nerd, white man, like Joker, my hero.
I guess not.
Oh, I'm sorry.
No movements, both of which were phenomenons of the early 2000s.
They don't make sense transposing to what we are, I guess supposed to take as an otherwise
similar recreation of a night.
Also, this is this is his interpretation of what the crowds are supposed to be.
Yep.
And he's saying my interpretation doesn't make the interpretation that I made up doesn't make
any sense to me.
A mob can't just be a mob of people.
I can't represent.
It has to be referential to a particular riot.
Yeah, some political.
He looked at this fucking mob in the movie compared to occupy Wall Street because they
both wear masks.
Yeah, that's what I mean.
It's really surface level for you know why he did this.
He wants to try and say the movie's bad, but he's got really thin and few arguments.
Also, Baywin just said 1992 King riots day of mass violence looting and murder because one
man was being beaten by the police.
I obviously would need to look into it, but the I'm kind of just going for the whole like
riots aren't specific to a decade.
Okay, I don't I don't think anybody would.
There were mass protests and riots and all that stuff.
That's just this is not like a super modern phenomenon.
Like it's weird that you think that like around 2004 people started
like gathering in the streets.
They just said, Hey, guys, I got an idea.
Right.
You look at that.
Keep rolling.
Oh, no.
I think that it says police.
You stole my sign.
I like the perfect depiction of movement in 2D.
It amuses me.
It is very well done.
Uh, Terminator 2 themes just playing in my head as I'm looking at this picture.
He'll be the new Terminator when they make it the reboot again.
These are the T.
Terminator 64,000.
It's a giant gelatinous ball rolls in a tree Terminator.
Anyway.
It's both of which were phenomenons of the early 2000s.
They don't make sense transposing to what we are.
I guess you can't be against corruption like the sign you fucking
put in your fucking photograph says can't be against corruption.
Corruption is a a very modern thing.
It's an inherently 2000s thing, right?
No, no, not a 1980 thing.
No corruption before that.
People weren't concerned about class anonymous or welfare issues,
which were phenomenons of the early 2000s.
They don't make sense transposing to what we're,
I guess supposed to take as an otherwise similar recreation of a 1980s city environment.
Because urban mass violence flashpoints in the 80s were almost always about racial tension.
To one degree or another.
So they can't be about anything else.
Oh my God, the brain.
The brain hurts.
Did you understand that there was like a darkie?
Oh my God.
You think, oh, then in the real world, these protests were mostly about race.
Well, then I guess you can't fucking have protests about anything else.
I'm just, I just want to be like, hey, Bob protests.
There was no Gotham in the 1980s that had an Arthur Fleck in it that became a joker.
So this is all inaccurate.
Fucking shit movie doesn't even know what it's doing.
Yeah, Gotham's not real.
Gotcha.
Ha.
Point me to the guy.
I don't remember.
Do you guys remember?
Is there a video clip we can find this of a guy dressed in a joker outfit shooting a
host of a show?
Is that a thing?
Apparently, this film is all made up.
That's dumb.
Fucking hate my films that are made up.
Did you guys know that Lord of the Rings is based entirely on reality?
I hope so.
It's great.
Yeah, he would explain.
Yeah, Super Bowl.
He would explain Bob.
He does look like an orc.
How dare you?
Orcs are not that ugly.
Okay, okay.
Look, Gotham may not have looked at his best, but
he tried.
I can just fix it.
She says I've heard of Gotham.
And he's like,
Hi.
And hey, hey, Lertz was definitely not.
Well, after the War of the Ring, it was hard to get a job as a.
So I started reviewing movies in my Hobbit.
My my cave and Mordor in my basement apartment.
I don't know about like, I'm sure it's an actual term for all I'm aware, but like describing
apartments that are basements, but it's just it sounds like the kind of thing you'd say
when you don't want to say basement.
You're like, it's my basement apartment.
You're like, okay, you probably should have just said there's certainly there's certainly
apartments that like if it's like a three story apartment building, the lower story
will be slightly underground.
But I don't think anyone ever refers to it as a basement apartment.
I think it really just lives in a basement.
Basement man bad.
My above ground dwelling.
What's like the nicest way you could say you live under a bridge?
It's like,
My sub
would be a bridge like a trans poor.
I don't even know.
I just realized that this started an argument in four words that's trending.
The argument is spelled incorrectly.
Oh, they tried.
It's all given about that.
That's supposed to take as an otherwise similar recreation of a 1980 city environment
because urban mass violence flashpoints in the eighties were almost always about
racial tension to one degree or another.
And there's no context given in the movie for anything happening.
It's making Gotham situation different.
Speak.
It doesn't matter if it's about race, you fucking gelatin tub of goo.
What are we in criticism?
Like, it's not about race.
It's like people can't have legitimate like grievances.
I guess not.
If it's not about race, then shut up.
You chunked hard.
Damn.
Movie for anything happening that's making Gotham situation any different.
Speaking of which, the lone historical illusion in the film is about that very thing.
Joker's first killing on the subway and elevation to folk hero status by the media is a clear
evocation of the 1984 Bernie Getz shootings where a white guy named
No, there's no messages in the film.
Apparently, this is a very strong message.
He's probably gonna say it says nothing about it, but apparently okay, so there was a killing
on a subway that was possibly racist from this guy or is I don't know the specifics.
Um, that means that they have to be alluding to racism in Joker.
It's like, does it?
Can it just not be the crime itself?
Or the the act of every everyone who watched this movie basically
got the message and he's pulling up New York Post.
Newspapers of Bernie Getz and stuff like that.
You call him by.
Call him by and like, man.
Like, you know, think that all this stuff can't happen.
Like, what about this is like unbelievable to you?
Like, what about do you not think that a crowd of people can have grievances
for class reasons or for welfare reasons or for social mobility reasons or for city
management reasons?
All of these reasons by people like a large group of people might protest in the streets
and those protests might become violent.
Like, does he think that just doesn't happen?
Like, this is wild, this world that he lives in.
This has been in that basement too long.
Oh, my goodness.
Professor exercise.
They even got McAvoy in there.
Hamstrings of justice.
Such a shitty movie, but I want to see it.
I'm looking for jump rope, old friend.
I will bring you jump rope in the form of a Twizzler.
The more you.
Black teenagers claim tried to rob him on a New York subway and eventually surrendered
to police claiming self defense, but was later revealed to have said a bunch of really,
really suspicious racist stuff leading up to it.
And also the kids were maybe just panhandling and the whole thing was a huge scandalous mess.
But that happened after the media had already spent months writing about a heroic subway
vigilante.
I don't like the twist this joke is taking.
So what does that say about the film?
There's never been a crime.
There's never been another crime on a subway or somebody's gotten killed
aside from this one instance.
And this has this movie has to be referencing this one instance in one list.
So let's Bob is really upset that Joker is not like trying to give a racial message.
That's like I said before, these people are really upset.
This film did not tell the message that they they thought it should sell.
And you're like, I'm sort of.
So like the whole the let's just say he's talking to the top fellows.
And on one hand, he says, so you were evoking this subway shoe and yeah.
And he and he goes, no, I've never heard of that before.
Movie Bob's upset.
He's like, that's insensitive.
You should know about this if you're going to do this.
You're like, OK, so that's one hand.
The other hand, he didn't know about it.
And he's like, so what does your film have to do with racism?
And he's like, well, I mean, I'm gunning for the act itself had happened.
And so that it's a similar one to this, but I'm not I'm not gunning for the whole
like race angle because that's not what Joker's about.
And then Bob's just like, well, that's wrong.
And it's just silence because that's not an argument.
And that's where we are.
This is these videos are painful to get to because they seem so disjointed
and they're so little to grab on to.
It's like trying to I don't know, like trying to.
What kind of glasses are crooked?
He couldn't even fix the perspective on those glasses.
I know it's very simple.
Photoshop, like, come on, dude.
I mean, where are you guys at?
Oh, I'm at 744.
Where are you at?
Yeah, what are we looking at? 745.
I see the Joker.
And so. Oh, no.
No movie, Bob.
You did not blow my mind.
Oh, that's bothering the shit out of me.
Don't worry, I'll get it.
It's like going to Photoshop for free tunes.
Cutting out its distinctly 80s race politics and substituting the visual language of 2019
class politics allows it to say.
So, yeah, so he's frustrated that Todd Fields has taken elements of different events across
our own history and put them into, you know, a melting pot of destruction for this society
in this fictional city.
And he's like, OK, fine, you did all of that, but you said nothing with it.
It's like, oh, is that right?
So, like, it would be OK if it meant something, right?
So, Bob, just bear with me and we'll be able to explain it to you because apparently
you're having trouble, but I'm assuming this is where he's going to his big climax is
going to be where he explains the movie is meaningless.
It's the same way that Arthur's issues with cuts to his social services and medication
have the look of an 80s health care system, but are presented in the manner that's all
about 2019's various prescription addiction, opioid crisis.
He did it again.
People only have opioid addiction in 2019.
Two people don't overdose.
People don't have medication needs.
People don't need prescriptions.
People like maybe maybe like prescriptions or let's see when did prescriptions.
Start history of prescription drugs.
OK, that's like saying, I don't know if you guys ever watch, but on the Andy Griffith show,
there's this little old lady that's really nosy.
And so she has to go to the pharmacist to get pills because she's got to take her pills.
She's a little lady.
She needs her pills.
And then there's a new pharmacist and she says, well, you don't have a prescription,
so I can't give you the pills.
And then the whole episode is about this little lady pretending that she's dying
because she's not getting her pills because the new pharmacist won't give her her pills,
even though the old pharmacist would always give her pills without a prescription.
And then you find out at the end of the episode that they've just been placebo pills,
that the old pharmacist was just giving it to her.
So she would, you know, she's OK.
She's got her pills kind of thing.
And it's like you're saying that that using movie Bob's logic,
that that is supposed to be a representation of somebody's addiction in 2019,
whereas this was a TV show that was filmed, what, in the fifties?
Come on, dude.
Such a narrow point of view and it doesn't lead him anywhere.
He's like, oh, it's you're evoking something that didn't happen in this time.
And you're like, do you know this?
Well, in fairness, I'm misquoting him there.
He's just saying it happened in this other time.
And it's like, I guess that's just the time for that thing.
Even though it's a very broad issue.
Does movie Bob want a documentary?
Apparently, I think he needs one.
Like he needs like this needs to be this needs to be a documentary
about real events that actually happened.
And maybe the only thing he can accept is.
I don't know the name of the city or.
I don't I don't know.
Like this isn't real.
It's it's fine to take things that actually occurred and sort of
change them around and repurpose them.
They make sense.
It's like a whole riot thing.
Yeah, sure.
Let's say let's say that movie Bob in in the real ladies,
like all of the violent riots were explicitly only racial related.
All right.
There is nothing that say that it isn't logical that a mob could form
or that a violent protest could form for a number of other reasons.
The fact that this is his problem with a movie should be,
if anything, just a a beacon for how good the movie is.
It takes a lot for me to call like issues with the film
petty to the point of pointlessness.
But that's what we have here.
These are like non-issues.
Yeah, I'm struggling to actually understand exactly what the problem is.
What does he want?
What do you want?
Tell me what I want.
I want my headache from this guy to go away.
You'll be cured in approximately three minutes.
Who knows how long that'll last though.
Three minutes is going to be another hour.
I don't know what you mean.
Or the viral video thing, which is trying badly to plug a critique of present day
social media shaming of ordinary people into an incompatible era,
where the big concern about media privacy was paparazzi and celebrity tabloid.
Again, he's echoing the point that you can't have him be humiliated on a TV show.
That can't happen.
It doesn't work.
It doesn't work in the exact same way.
Therefore, parallels can't be drawn.
Thanks, Bob, and your galaxy brain saving the day once more.
My head hurts so bad.
He's making, I'm surprised how much of this video is.
These things happen in different times.
They should be happening in those times, not this time.
Session.
Using cheesy references to a movie from that era about that thing.
A movie that was, of course, a thematic reunion feature for the director and star of another
movie that Joker takes the bulk of its late 70s early 80s reference cues from and very much.
See how he's very nebulous about what it's taking from Taxi Driver and King of Comedy?
Because I hear this all the time.
I hear that it's supposed to be copies of it.
It's really close to it.
People never really explain why, though, and I've never seen these movies.
So Joker worked perfectly fine for me without me seeing these, the quote unquote source material.
Well, what you don't realize is Joker stole from those films.
When you finally watch those, which you will, you'll find yourself watching and being like,
oh, my goodness, this is this is I'd say this is a ripoff of Joker if I if I didn't know better.
But oh, I guess we'll see.
I guess we'll see if that's your reaction because I've seen Taxi Driver several times
for a slow Joker.
And yeah, I managed to survive.
So I'm not even sure how at this point because I just keep getting told.
That's the case.
We'll have a podcast for that one, guys.
Don't worry.
Joker deserves to be looked at as a ripoff of those other films.
Please tell me that podcast is not going to be a dressing up again.
No, it's a different YouTube.
It's not Bob.
Oh, my God.
It's OK.
Because this guy this guy's oh, I can't believe I made it this far.
Much wants you to be thinking of at all times.
Taxi Driver, because that's a great film for a great film about an alienated loner losing his
grip on reality and turning to violent power fantasies and an unfeeling urban hellscape.
It created the universally understood language of such films.
And while Joker may be running on fumes, those fumes are an understanding that if
it can recite the language phonetically, it doesn't need to understand or speak it.
You're not saying anything.
Just fucking weird salad.
What he just said is like so you have a fucking parrot, basically.
That's what he does.
He's just associated with Joker so they can repeat the words.
There is no idea how it made them or what they for or what they do.
That's an interesting conclusion.
You've not provided any evidence for this.
I mean, maybe if you actually watch the movie, you would understand the movie.
But I was just frustrated based on his description of what happens.
I don't think he did.
He thinks he's so clever by describing a parrot in a really complicated way.
I say more complicated way than just saying a parrot.
And but he hasn't supported this at all.
He's just said it.
It's like, good job, man.
I could just say the reverse.
It wouldn't make any sense.
But it's not unheard of on the FAP.
The idea that something ripped off something that came after it.
Does anyone know what I'm referencing?
Hey, J Log, you were there for that.
You remember I was looking at my fucking Robocop was.
But I'm forgetting this.
I don't remember if I was on that show.
So that Star Wars ripped off Robocop.
Oh, God.
Robocop came after.
How can you make that claim?
This one wasn't made with.
Just he didn't.
He didn't think he didn't think about the dates.
He just thought it and said it didn't say.
You know what?
I should go.
I can do it.
Who cares about accuracy?
Because more references being accurate.
Who fucking cares?
That's just how we feel.
Did movie Bob say that or.
Yes.
It was a remarkable Republican.
Yeah.
Oh, and that is a remarkable claim.
Or an understanding that it can recite the language phonetically.
It doesn't need to understand or speak it.
This is a good thing.
If there's more clips like this, we can just skip over them essentially.
Clips to make a time.
Honestly, because I really got no idea what this is for.
He needs to get it to 10 minutes.
Is it to split up the topics?
Also, actually, yeah, if you remove all of the clips,
we might have it sink under 10 minutes.
You could be right on that.
But that's what he's doing.
I know he does this in all of his big picture ones that he tries to.
I think the idea is to break up thoughts between sections.
I don't know though.
Break up thoughts.
I know, right.
And that's what I mean by this movie not really being about anything
because it's all texture with nothing underneath Arthur.
You haven't proven this.
Yeah.
Tell us why all the things that everybody is saying that it's about are not true.
Don't just keep don't just assert blindly that
nope, there's nothing here.
So he spends the whole fucking video saying it's meaningless,
but he hasn't proven any of it.
And then you have me like, or whoever else
working for hours going through the plot meticulously to get all your evidence to prove a point.
And they're like, because they did 10 minute videos saying it was meaningful.
Just like, oh yeah, repeat that over and over again.
Nothing that he has said before this supports the idea that there's no meaning.
Uh, it's because he left out like all of the main details.
Like we're, we're in the end game now.
This is the end of the video almost.
He's going to be wrapping up soon.
He said anything about anything because it's all texture with nothing underneath it.
Arthur's big speech sounds and directed and is staged like a big important scene
where something meaningful gets said in a movie like this at this point.
The fuck is happening?
I don't know.
I don't think he wants to say anything.
There were riot.
He doesn't say anything like, like meaningful thing.
No, remember, Jenny Nichols said that the message was super heavy handed and she,
she like, she acknowledged it, but she didn't like get it.
You know, like she said it, but she didn't recognize it.
Say that he's saying there was nothing really sad.
And she's saying the message was too obvious that we're dealing with.
Yeah. How many times in the, um, the final scene here of, uh,
where Joker is on the show and he's chatting and shitting and all that stuff.
And Jenny talks about how heavy handed it is.
And here we have movie Bob, one of, one of her great white nights, right?
Saying that there's no meaning here.
There's no message.
There's nothing.
So it could simultaneously be empty and heavy handed and obvious.
This is hurtful.
It's where the action and score tell us society has broken down,
but we don't know what not broken meant in this world.
It's grimy and what you know, what a not broken world.
Why do you have to see the, what's shitty?
How, how do you not know what a not broken world is?
Is all the bad stuff minus the bad stuff?
It's without the bad stuff.
Let's help him out.
Okay.
So social programs that are actually instated and are functioning well,
people getting paid and respected for their jobs,
people who are kind to each other during traveling or meeting each other,
all of your standard sort of societal interactions running well
and people respecting each other.
That's the world.
The Joker wants.
Yeah.
Everyone's making money.
They're pursuing their dreams.
They're, they're not under, you know, duress and stress.
Everyone's getting along.
Crime's low.
Welfare's down because people don't need it because the economy's thriving
and all this stuff.
You, you know what a good, this is a baffling.
You know what he wanted was we needed a prologue,
dude, where it's just a really happy world.
Everything's happy and great.
And then it says 10 years later.
And then we cut to the film.
We want to go back to happy fun time.
Oh boy.
Yeah, I know.
I'm seeing, I've been collecting memes throughout this whole stream.
And Wolf, I think I know which one you just saw.
Goodness.
This is beautiful.
I mean, it's not, but it is.
Oh my God.
His jowls are in between his tits.
He's got a turkey.
Oh my God.
He's got a turkey.
Oh my God.
His toes.
Oh my God, the dew.
The turkey there.
That bird flew there thinking it would be shelter.
Little did it die.
It died and cooked under there.
It actually cooked.
And then he'll just pluck it out once it's done and eat it.
Do you think he used this thumbnail to scrape the skin off the legs?
I like the size of the laptop, by the way.
That's a big ball.
Yeah.
Oh my goodness.
Got the right amount of juices for my tits, for my titanic tits.
It's 17% sweat.
I just want to thank everyone watching and sending me these memes,
because otherwise Movie Bob would have killed me several times by now.
She's Movie Bob the Hutt.
It's like at this point, I'm just like staring at Twitter,
hoping I find more memes.
It'll make me survive the next minute and a half of this garbage video.
He always gives me a headache.
The only reason you don't like his video is because it's terrible.
Yes.
I knew it.
You biased toward good things.
Anyway.
Oh my god.
Oh god.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Hold on.
Someone gave Diabido another nemesis to rival professor exercise.
Dr.
And so Dr.
And soon.
Oh, Rex doesn't like it.
I'm sorry.
You just don't like it because you didn't come up with.
Of course.
Yeah, I wouldn't come up with that.
I don't know about that myself.
I feel like that's an actual rags joke.
I don't know.
I feel like I would start making it,
but I would have I'd bail out of that.
I'd abort mission halfway through and say,
you know, exercise.
I feel like there's an excellent joke there.
All right.
You'll figure it out given time.
But we don't know what not broken meant in this world.
It's grimy and edgy and poised on the edge of urban apocalypse
like early 80s movies were.
But without the authentic real world outside the theater context,
those movies were feeding off of.
It's just an echo, a reference, the equivalent of an old time photo app.
All right.
I just think he's using a comic book template on his footage.
I like how he's showing video footage of scenes didn't even claim were in the movie.
Well, his plot summary was pointless.
I don't even know why he had it.
Yeah, it is.
Because he had to make references to actual Joker.
He's at this point, he's just making up things that don't happen in the movie.
But he's showing video.
So that way we can see video filter on a photo app.
And what little semblance of a point it does offer to make contradicts
what little text it actually has.
Arthur, all the bellows that society turned him into the Joker.
But we and he just got done finding out that it was actually just his mother
that was primarily responsible.
Wow.
Is he really trying to put what happened to Arthur all on his mom?
Yeah, that's this.
This informs it all, guys.
His previous video, he said it's all because of a woman.
And so here we go deleted scenes.
This is how you rationalize it.
Oh, my God.
His mom paid off the kids in the beginning.
His his mom told the clown to sell him a gun to go steal my son's sign.
He's just his mom is the one that beat him when he was a child and tied him up to a furnace.
His mom is the one that did everything bad to him ever.
Okay, great.
And the fact that his mom dealt with a system that couldn't take care of her as well.
That's her fault.
Yeah, his mom also gave that tape to Murray.
She told Murray to roast roast his ass.
My son, he needs a lesson.
Oh, my God, man.
Like this is why this is why we do this when they just they watch the movie, but they didn't.
That happens more times than it should.
But it seems like it happens all the time where we have to ask.
Did you watch the movie you're trying to tell us about?
Because we watch the movie and we just don't follow at all with anything that you're saying.
A movie, even if it's a movie, I don't like I'll watch it a couple times so I can soak up
everything.
So I know what I'm talking about when I'm when I talk about it.
This dude's like, well, you know, fuck it.
You know, it's about nothing.
I'll make a video after probably watching it once.
Or the mob was behind it all.
She puppeteered everything.
She was the criminal mastermind.
Forty chokers.
We're so skinny.
I'm so jealous.
I'm gonna make a video trash this movie.
I wish I could find my bones.
Find my boat.
Yeah, let's play it again.
Make sure that's what he said.
Pretty clear.
But hey, what little text it actually has.
Arthur Albert bellows that society turned him into the Joker.
But we and he just got done finding out that it was actually just his mother that was primarily
responsible for like 90 percent of what I like.
How he says it's just his mother that was primarily responsible for the drinks.
Like, oh, so there was secondary things.
No, it was a combination of multiple sources.
Oh, that's not what I meant.
Well, it's like this thing everyone's been saying.
You're taking words from my mouth hole and you're twisting them.
No one takes things from my mouth hole.
And he said 90 percent.
How do you qualify that?
He qualified.
Seriously, I didn't even hear that.
He didn't watch the movie.
He said 90 percent happened to him.
Yeah, he said 90 percent.
Hang on, I'm just going to play it so everyone hears it.
Turned him into the Joker.
But we and he just got done finding out that it was actually just his mother that was
primarily responsible for like 90 percent of what happened.
How the fuck did he qualify?
So nine out of 10 things that happened to him are his mother.
All right.
OK, that's definite.
That's definitely that can definitely be supported by scenes from the film.
It's like the kids to beat him up.
His mom had it gave the gun to I don't remember the character's name, but the other clown.
This is like a scene where she's like,
oh, you should take the gun to your job with the children.
Do it.
I don't know, Bob.
This sounds like a bad idea.
Do it.
Do it, do it, do it.
What movie did you watch, Bob?
Oh, bloody hell.
All right, I want you to beat the shit out of my son.
He needs to be like some twisted version of the Truman show.
She's just like, how much can we do until this motherfucker snap?
At the end, she's in the hospital and they're like, why did you do this to him?
She's like, I was bored.
Then the credits roll.
Yeah, I wanted amusement, Arthur.
The movie, Bob's like, wow.
It was like mostly her.
It's like 90 percent of her.
I was bored and now I'm dead.
It's fucking worth it, I tell you.
What a weird world he lives in.
And he killed her for it.
In fact, if you pull out the ultimately meaningless references to other movies
and comic book Easter eggs and ignore the filmmakers and Warner Brothers
marketing have claimed the movie is about and just went by what's on screen,
you might conclude that Joker is just a straightforward, if pointedly, extra misogynist.
What?
Serial killer.
No, he's misogynist.
He's like, aside from everything else, no reference to watch about him.
It's like, go fuck yourself.
You did not watch this.
He doesn't support any of the claims, so why would we expect him to support that?
So you're telling me that Arthur, a guy that, you know, he lives with his mother.
He takes care of his mother.
She's in bed.
He washes her.
He feeds her.
He does everything to provide for his mother.
Uh, he, you know, makes up this whole relationship with a girl because he
ever he hates her.
That's why he would be in a relationship.
And the relationship he makes up is like romantic.
It's never sexual, gross or fetishy.
It's just like, he just wants to love someone and to be loved.
His fantasy with Murray has them hug.
How that's misunderstanding.
He's not going to hug a woman.
These people know what these words mean before they say that.
I don't think they do.
What do you think?
Okay.
Rags using, using all of your movie, Bob, a known thing.
How do you think he would rationalize the film is misogynist?
Because he killed his mother and there were other people who did bad things to
him that he didn't kill.
And therefore he's being unfair to his mother.
So the woman was used as an object of desire instead of having a character.
He wanted a, he wanted a healthy relationship with a woman.
Hmm.
What a piece of shit.
Movie pop doesn't know what a relationship with a woman is cut him some slack.
Oh, that poor man.
Like, I just, I don't know what it is about him, but every time we watch a video with him,
he literally makes me physically ill.
I let's, um, let's, let's get his, let's see if he explains why.
I feel like, like he listened to a video from him.
He's like sitting next to the fourth nuclear reactor in Chernobyl for like an hour.
This is so painful.
There is a just, I've been, I've been provided an image that I think you guys will appreciate.
Okay.
It will, it'll make you feel better.
All right.
That's okay.
Okay.
Here we go.
You guys ready?
Yeah.
I am.
Okay.
Boring.
You're good.
Oh, my God.
Three amigos.
This is his arc.
It's across the trilogy of movie about films.
Oh, my God.
It's a patrol on the streets and sweat in the sheet.
Look at the wheel.
Look at the wheels on the tricycle thing.
Oh, I get it.
It looks like one wheel is about to fall off too.
I managed to scoot himself if you know what I mean.
Look at his little arms.
Oh, my God.
Beowyn, you're the greatest thing that's ever happened to this world.
And I love you.
Goodness.
Why are you so good at drawing fat people?
The three fours of movie about Dick Hamock.
Well, over got her.
Three horsemen of the apocalypse.
Oh, my God.
Maybe this is describing.
So you got like the genre films.
You got like your movie about film.
You're a your superhero movie about film with your sci-fi movie about film.
He's a very versatile actor, you see.
Yes.
Intense stuff.
No doubt.
Okay.
Here we go.
A drama about how the abused, infantilized Arthur belatedly achieved psychotic manhood
as the confident, swaggering Joker by escaping and killing the controlling,
abusive mother figure who'd infantilized him in the first place.
Oh, so that is the justification for misogyny.
Then he killed his mom.
Simple as that.
Because he's not on his medication because the system can't split.
And so he doesn't have the help and, you know, therapy and medication he needs.
And he finds out that his mom let somebody abuse him in his whole life.
Been like, wow, that's so fucking misogynist that he snapped like that.
This man's brain is Crisco.
You can't have characters, okay?
Having characters is evil.
It has to be about the fact that the men and women.
Now, I don't know if that's the movie they intended to make,
but that's the movie they kind of made.
Whoa.
Now, look, this is not like I take two of my Joker review where I basically said
it was mediocre and too empty to be upset about or
pretty much is doubling down on anything else.
I sincerely felt that the manner in which the film managed to be self-righteously
bland was worthy of a more in-depth elaboration.
And this was that he calls this an elaboration.
Oh, my God, he doesn't he doesn't know what these words mean.
It's surprising to say the least.
I also don't think it was a film made lazily or with cynical intent.
It's very possible that all of these less than functional decisions that I've observed
were made with high-minded intentions and that Todd Phillips, etc.,
and the other filmmakers have very detailed, heartfelt explanations for each one.
But the thing about explanations is, well, you want to take this one, Mr. J?
If you have to explain a joke, there is no joke.
Um, yeah, that's so just because you don't understand it doesn't mean nobody understands it, Bob.
He clearly doesn't want everyone as stupid as you.
Yeah.
I'm Bob and that's the big picture.
The only thing that's big about this picture is the size of the man that's telling it.
I am disappointed.
There's no apology at the end of the video.
Sorry, you watched this.
I'd appreciate that.
I think it'd be good for all of us.
That hurt my brain.
You did it.
We killed him.
Oh, my God.
It wasn't easy.
Why is he like this?
I don't know.
Why can't he just be a normal person?
Why does he have to be just the worst thing on YouTube?
Someone chained him to a radiator and beat him with broccoli.
It was a particularly tough branch of broccoli.
No, please.
I died.
There's not much else to say.
He's what we've covered in quite a few times at this point.
And it's just the same shit.
In fairness, there was less of the crazy amount of
loads of big words in one big set.
What was it?
Because he had a crazy one that made it into Godelb 2 because it was so out there.
We had to like write it all down.
Didn't do it this time.
I like how this is written and edited by Bob Shipman.
Like that was an achievement.
I would not put my name on anything that was remarkable.
Congratulations, Bob.
You did the bare minimum.
You wrote your video and you edited your video.
Congratulations.
You're a YouTuber, technically.
By technicality, you are a YouTuber.
Oh, thanks.
Oh, but anyway, we have a main course.
That was the small video.
We're doing more.
The thing is, Bob is tough not to pause.
This one is, dare I say it,
a better video.
I have two and a half hours left before I have to do my other show.
I was going to say, just let me know when you want to hop out and then that'll be fine.
You made it through a whole movie about video.
You've earned the right.
Yeah, this is a channel called Nando versus Movies.
And what he does is look at a movie, finds, let's say, a part of it that's lacking.
Then he tries to make up for that with a sort of a re-edit suggestion.
And he has one for Joker.
And I guess I'm more interested in what Wolf will think of his fixes.
Sorry?
It's just a good video or is this a bad video?
I'm not going to make that claim.
It'll be up to the see how it goes, shall we?
We'll just check out what he has to say.
It looks like his eyes are boring into my soul.
Yeah.
Stop looking at me like that.
Also, who needs two gauntlets?
Come on, man.
I don't know.
There's something about this guy.
Something to heaven's heaven's gate cult territory.
All right.
Oh, God, he could be cry five and I would believe it.
Look at Jay.
You're covering that, though.
He's a good.
All right.
All right.
All right.
Let's check it out.
Hi.
I just want to say two things.
First, this video is full of spoilers for the movie Joker, which should not be a huge
surprise since this video is about the movie Joker, but still, I figured it was worth saying.
Second, at the end of this video, I'm going to talk about a couple of things that are important
to me.
So even if you don't usually watch the entire video, I'd really appreciate it if you did this time.
Okay.
Cyanide is important.
That's his personal take.
Oh, my goodness.
Before we get started, I've got to give Joker some credit.
Joaquin Phoenix did a phenomenal job with Arthur from the voice to the mannerisms to the laugh.
He completely sold the character and deserves all of the praise he is getting.
Hilder Gunadotter's score was also amazing.
And finally, I'm going to go ahead and say probably I have no idea.
I genuinely don't know how to pronounce her name.
I wish I did, but I looked at her last name and I was like, Oh, I can't.
I'm not even going to try.
It has a bunch of like accents and shit.
I don't make sense to me.
All right.
Fine and cinematography did that thing that all good Batman movies need to do.
They made Gotham City into a character.
It seems like a cliche, but it is legitimately very important, especially in this movie.
And I think Joker handled Gotham City very well.
With all that being said, I had quite a few problems with Joker.
Almost all of which stemmed from what I would argue was a pretty shallow script.
Joker takes swings, some complicated topics, but I think it misses almost all of them.
Why, why can't we have good things?
Joker takes swings and a lot of complicated topics and misses all of them.
That's what he said.
Quite the claim.
Why is it that all of the people who like The Last Jedi in this shit really hate this movie?
Why do you people exist?
I don't know if he liked TLJ honestly.
He might have.
Hold on.
I'm going to look at this channel and I'm going to guess that he does.
I can't substantiate is substantiate because I've never heard of him.
Well, Jay said he's a good challenge.
Does he like TLJ?
Tell us.
Reveal to us.
He just said Nando.
No.
You were the chosen one.
It's okay.
He doesn't have many videos actually.
He doesn't have anything on TLJ.
No, he does.
Apparently he didn't like it.
That's it.
Apparently he didn't like it.
Apparently he didn't like it.
It's okay.
It's okay for now and I'll forgive you a little bit.
Three videos telling people why Aquaman's shit.
From what I would argue was a pretty shallow script.
Joker takes swings at some complicated topics, but I think it misses almost all of them.
From mental health to corruption to society.
I think Joker raid.
Mental health, corruption, and society apparently missed all of them.
Ooh.
Oh my god.
Like really?
I don't know man, like none of them.
Oh, apparently there's a quote from him saying,
out of ways Star Wars, the last Jedi succeeded.
Jay, Jay, you lied to us.
Well, what do you know?
It's almost like there's a trend of certain people.
I guess that doesn't necessarily mean he liked it, right?
He could just be saying that he didn't like it, but it is achieved.
But it didn't succeed in any way.
It didn't succeed at all.
I don't know.
He didn't hate it.
He didn't like it.
Okay.
He's middling on it.
It misses almost all of them from mental health to corruption to society.
I think Joker raises many issues that it is not prepared to adequately address.
And maybe my biggest individual issue with Joker concerns Arthur himself.
He holds extreme views, which he uses to justify his actions,
which would usually be a good thing.
I want a protagonist with strong beliefs, like Batman,
and especially if the protagonist is an anti-hero.
Like how Han believes he can't look up-
Can we please stop mentioning Batman?
I'm talking about this fucking movie.
Everyone has to mention Batman.
Every single fucking time.
Everyone has a stupid opinion about this movie.
They bring up Batman.
So he said that Joker has extreme views.
Is he referring to awful people should be killed?
As of you?
Guessing?
Doesn't he realize that the Joker actually has a character arc in this movie
and that he changes based on the information he's given?
It just reminded me of-
I don't know if you've seen the red light media video,
but Jay of red light media, not Jay Exe said,
you know, Arthur starts out so downtrodden
that his character has nowhere to go.
And then Mike is like, no.
And then he goes, what?
He goes, Joker.
He becomes Joker.
For yourself, or even a villain, like how Thanos holds some
pretty strong beliefs about the universe and balance.
It is not a problem that Arthur believes that the rich and powerful
are making life worse for the rest of us.
And it is not a problem that he takes that belief to the extreme
and uses that belief to justify murder and inciting a riot.
That's good.
He comes to that belief later on in the movie if you actually watch it
because he says so many times, I don't care about politics.
I don't care about any of that stuff.
I just want to make people smile and laugh.
And then when he learns out the shit about his mom,
when he goes and connects Thomas Wayne, when he loses his medication,
when he loses his therapy, everything adds up.
If you actually watch the fucking movie and pay attention to the fucking movie,
you would know these things.
Who is this person?
So I can avoid their channel.
It's only two minutes.
We can give him a chance.
I don't know.
I'm waiting for qualifications.
I'm not going to be a lot here so far.
He's not moving, Bob.
I don't care.
I just, when I hear this point, I'm like, did you watch it?
He's like, it's good that he holds the view that it's fine.
Oh, well, not good morally.
But he holds the views that the rich people are fucking up the poor people.
And that's a good enough reason to kill them.
I mean, I'm trying to think of like...
He comes to that at the end of the movie, though.
And he wasn't going to kill them.
He was going to kill himself.
And he makes that decision last minute when he realizes he can't kill himself.
And he's just like, fuck it.
And then he kills Murray.
Yeah.
And he definitely has the line about how you all walk past me sort of thing.
And I think I'm going to let him speak for some more because I'm just like...
A good way for a real person to act.
But it's good that Arthur has that reaction because it raises interesting questions.
However, I believe Joker fails when it comes to doing anything interesting with those questions.
It feels content with saying that people are bad and Arthur is bad.
And maybe he's right.
Who knows?
They show why people are bad.
He's fucking showing.
Maybe he's right that everyone's bad, but not everyone's even bad.
He literally spares somebody in this film for not being bad.
Oh, my God.
Do I have to watch this?
I'm sorry.
This is awful.
Why did you do this to us?
There's a lot of bad Joker takes.
We're 23 seconds.
Oh, no, we're 20...
What? 22 minutes?
We're two minutes in a 23 minute video.
God damn it.
This is definitely an issue of like, come on.
The film wouldn't be saying everyone's bad.
There's a seed devoted to the idea that a good person gets spades.
I don't...
Cares.
Joker doesn't spend much time examining Arthur's beliefs critically.
Outside of Murray at the very end of the movie, very briefly,
no one stands up to Arthur, challenges his beliefs.
And I'm not saying...
Because nobody knows.
Nobody fucking knows, because it's all in his fucking head.
And the only people that do stand up to him are...
They die because he kills him.
Not to...
I really want to ask this guy like, okay, so tell me what you believe Joker's beliefs are,
and then conclude that nobody...
Like, I'm trying to figure out the formula here,
actually saying that he isn't challenged on his belief.
His belief that what?
That society is kind of shit right now?
And that...
I mean, didn't Murray challenge his beliefs right before he got his head blown off?
Well, he says it like it doesn't count.
Very briefly, Murray questions him, and he's the only one to question him.
And it's like, well, no shit.
It's because he doesn't know that he's a fucking psychopath killer.
He reveals that right before he kills everyone.
I would actually argue that it's Murray's challenge that crystallizes Joker.
The fact that he's...
Him addressing Arthur like that made Arthur fucking pissed.
Yeah, and Arthur's pretty much like invisible to everyone else.
So of course, no one would challenge him because no one else fucking sees how...
No one knows.
His lunacy is growing, and no one can see it because he's a visible person, like an idiot.
And I'm not saying that every movie needs to be a debate
where opposing views are presented and a winner is decided,
but it does make the story pretty flat if the protagonist does not meet with any real opposition.
Doesn't meet with any opposition?
Any ideological foil, you know?
Like the one at the end who told him to his face that not ever...
You don't know me, Joker.
Why are you people so stupid?
It doesn't count.
It wasn't long enough.
You people need to stop making videos.
Isn't...
Like as someone's just highlighted in chat,
isn't the fact that people are ignoring him a part of it?
A part of his issues?
Like he's not seen, not...
Then that's why dancing on the car at the end,
this is like a dream come true because he's the center of attention.
Challenged his views.
Are you saying that the audience needs...
Like let's look at...
We need someone to tell him that mass murdering is bad.
We are so stupid that if we don't have someone telling us that mass murder is bad,
that it means that we're all going to become mass murderers
because the people that don't like this movie are so stupid
that they can't even understand what the movie was about in the first place.
Seems to be arguing for like interest level.
Like it's not interesting to not have him challenged,
just too shallow or whatever.
I'm just like, I don't agree.
Oh my god.
Wolf is trying to get to the Joker.
By your definition, what movie has...
I want to see this guy give me a comparison.
If he's saying that the Joker is lacking these things,
show me one that isn't so I can see what your level of, you know,
actual comprehension is.
He's gonna reference Taxi Driver and King of Comedy
because that's what everyone does.
I'm sorry.
No ideological foil.
It feels shallow.
Like let's look at Murray's exchange with Arthur for one second.
The most complete attempt Joker makes at calling Arthur out.
Murray says, are you finished?
I mean, it's so much self-pity Arthur.
It sounds like you're making excuses for killing those young men.
Not everybody.
And I'll tell you this, not everybody is awful.
My dinner was pretty great.
That's a good point.
And I wish one Joker spent more time with.
It could be said.
What do you mean?
Joker actually agrees with everyone's awful.
He says it.
Oh my God.
He spares someone's life for being kind.
And then he calls Murray out.
He says, yeah, I know not everyone's awful.
And then he's, but look at you.
You brought me on here to make fun of me.
You know, he calls him out on his own hypocrisy.
Did we watch the same fucking movie, bro?
Part of the, I'm not sure what this guy's after.
We understand this better and better as we go along, I think.
You know, it's pretty great.
That's a good point.
And I wish one Joker spent more time with.
It could be said that Arthur is using self-pity as an excuse to act without consequences.
However, Murray is the wrong messenger to deliver that message.
And this is where Joker's shallowness becomes an issue.
Because in Joker, everyone is awful.
Like no.
No, but carry on.
You're wrong.
But carry on.
Like cartoonishly awful.
Gary wasn't awful.
The woman on the bus is rude to Arthur.
That's not cartoonishly awful.
Plenty of parents want to keep people who look weird away from their kids.
Yeah.
And she gave him a sympathetic look after reading the card and figuring out,
oh, there's just something mentally wrong with him.
Nothing cartoonish about her.
That's, you need to go to a bus stop and stare at somebody for a few seconds and see what happens.
Even though he's just trying to make the kid laugh.
Arthur's so is rude to Arthur, even though he's just trying to make the kid laugh.
Arthur's social worker doesn't listen to him.
Those kids.
Arthur's social worker doesn't listen to him.
That's the only thing we get to hear about that.
I dare say it's tad more complicated than that.
Good job is to listen and reflect on him and try and improve him when her job is getting taken
away with just as much as his medication is in a city that doesn't care about her or him.
She's very, it's supposed to reflect the idea.
Like the idea is like, oh, the therapist doesn't care about him.
We dealt with this with Jenny.
It's like, are you aware of like therapists that aren't even particularly great at their
jobs or therapists that aren't actually supposed to be doing these jobs?
She's a social worker and she's trying to be the person that can bring Joker back together.
Like from his mental breakdown.
As someone who has had several therapists,
none of which really said anything more than the exact same things that you could just
find for free on a YouTube video.
This is a thing that happens.
Okay, therapists don't generally care.
Not everything is like goodwill hunting.
I'm sorry to break it to you.
Just like, um, and this is, this is his list of like, you see, um, these people don't.
Like this, this is a society that's ridiculous.
Like, why is it, and Jenny said the same thing.
It was like, you could, Jenny actually said you could see one of these things happening.
You can't see all of them happening in like a small amount of time.
Society can suck, man.
And I hate the, like we don't even have to use the word because it's too meme-y.
But, uh, yeah, also Jay Longbone shall return from what I understand.
Anyway, steal Arthur's sign and beat him up for seemingly no reason.
Arthur's, um, okay.
God damn.
I actually feel like kind of a dick at this point.
So just like you just raw got everything.
So have you guys ever heard of kids, uh, like delinquents doing something
just to be mean as a group?
Oh my God, just pull up, just pull up that video that you, uh, oh, did Anna leave?
Yeah, we've lost.
It was just me and, you know, well, oh, we got Jay Longbone back.
Hello.
Hello.
We lost you and Anna.
It was terrifying.
Molly, you can just pull up that video that you showed me in rags earlier.
Kid that like was getting beat up for like no reason.
And then he goes and beats up all the other kids.
Actually.
Yeah.
Let's I, you've made me want to actually do that.
Yeah.
See if I can find it incredibly applicable here.
If you guys want to see like the best sense of justice ever, this is going to be it.
Do, uh, do you know where it is?
I'm trying to find it.
It was before it was cause I remember sending you the pot hole one.
Oh, there it is.
I found it.
Okay.
Give me a second shot.
So the question is what kids really be such means?
Would they really, let me, I'll give you the link to you guys as well.
Oh, unless you already post it.
So this is the link.
No, I'm thinking I can put that back on.
Um, do you want to sync it up?
Yes.
Hold on.
I'll pull it up right now.
All right.
I'm on zero on the video.
Okay.
So, uh, oh, that doesn't look quite right.
Does it get, you still see the movie ball picture to me.
All right.
Three, two, one, go.
Can you hear me?
Uh, give us, just give us, uh, three seconds or so.
That was a fucking hot.
Oh, when he curb stops the kid's face, that's so satisfying.
So yeah, uh, kids can be assholes.
Like that's kind of the point we're getting back here.
And if they're in a group where they're encouraging each other to be even more
assholey, like look at the clown guy with the sign.
I'm going to distract him.
One of you knock the sign out of him and then we'll run with it.
If he fucking chases us, we'll knock him out with it.
Why the hell not?
Um, so the idea is like,
why are they doing this?
The children have no motivation to do this.
Like, dude, I mean, it's just like, it's this.
They don't need a motivation.
If they feel like doing it, they'll do it just to fuck with you.
What about the dog in the dryer?
Do you guys remember seeing that video?
What?
Yeah.
This girl on it, like her Instagram, uh, like story thing,
she did Instagram live and she puts her dog in the dryer and she laughs about it.
Oh, fuck.
Do you remember the, the YouTuber as well?
Who like spat on a dog.
Yeah, I remember covering that.
Yeah, I remember that.
I like that.
And we established this as a terrible city.
Like I said, it's worse than you just have these YouTubers who are like,
people aren't this made.
Why would you do this?
What, what kind of sheltered life do you live in?
Where you think that's exactly the point.
They don't know that bad stuff happens in the world because they're so fucking sheltered.
It's like walk down a bad, you know, street and you're going to
learn that not everything's all sunshine and daisies real fast.
Yeah, this guy's soundproof walls actually become really symbolic.
Arthur's social workers gotta block out the hate.
Those kids steal Arthur's sign and beat him up for seemingly no reason.
Arthur's boss blames Arthur for what happened to the sign,
even though why would Arthur steal a going out of business sign?
Arthur's coworker lies about giving Arthur the gun.
Thomas Wayne is a jerk.
Wait, is that like something that he thinks shouldn't have happened?
The lying about giving the gun thing?
He says it like, is he just labeling things that are bad now?
I don't know.
Like, I'm just, look, okay.
So if you admit that they've been passing, I was going to say,
like, what the fuck would you admit to that?
Like he's fucking dangerous.
It'd be even worse nowadays with all the gun control shit.
Like if you're passing guns around people, like, you know, you're fired.
Get the fuck out.
That's that's going to scare people.
And yeah, you not only did that, he also said that he claimed that
Arthur tried to buy the gun off him, right?
Like he double screwed him.
I think, did he say buy the gun or buy the bullets?
I can't remember.
Oh, I guess it doesn't really matter because I think he says a thing.
He said you tried to buy a gun off him a week ago.
The implication being he refused that gun and then Joker got one from somewhere else.
That sort of thing.
Apparently, I'm being told we shouldn't be making arguments that these things happen
in real life and thus they're okay to happen in the film.
We should be arguing in universe.
Okay, so are you just going to let's be nice, right?
So there are human beings in this film being no, no, we're not going to be nice.
This is this is like really retarded point.
It's fucking Gotham.
It's one of the most violent crime ridden places in fucking fiction that like you can't
compare it to real life yet.
You're fucking right because Gotham is worse than real life.
Well, here's the thing.
Can you name one thing that happens in this movie that is unrealistic to real life?
Riots, they only happen in 2000s plus.
Sorry, it's a bad point because we're talking about human beings in this film
being depicted with drawing real life references to what human beings do and say and act.
There's a reason why so if you go strictly from in universe rules,
then we have to start wondering, so is this species human?
I don't know.
They haven't declared that in the film yet.
Obviously, we take stuff from real life in order to apply rules.
What fiction needs to do is tell us when they deviate from real life if they're
depicting something close to it.
So like if you have a fictional world like Looper, for example,
everything is mostly the same, except there's time travel and people have telekinesis.
So they try and establish that very quickly because everything else is the same.
You'll understand everything else.
Just make sure you get those things.
So the idea that it's like people aren't this mean, it's like, yes, they are.
That's the point we're making.
You can't appeal to real life and call this unrealistic because life is this cruel as well.
But we wouldn't say the film is good because it's depicting people being mean
and people are mean in real life.
That's not the argument we're making.
We're just trying to establish that saying it's unrealistic is inaccurate.
Yep.
And you can absolutely appeal to real life if you're trying to define whether or not
something is possible in a film that's essentially grounded.
That's kind of where I was going with that.
There's a principle you can apply to lots of different things like that.
Like I said, Lord of the Rings is in trouble because it's almost all
without understanding what life is.
The only thing you really retain is stuff like Lord of the Rings.
It's like a whole character.
People work a certain way like they do in real life.
And so you need to be realistic.
It's like, oh, so it's on Lord of the Rings to explain fucking everything.
Like you got what are all the species?
How do they all hang out?
Where are all the places where all the rules or the borders?
What's all the powers?
It's like, yeah, that's why you need to be a fucking great writer to get all of that
shit sorted before you can even start telling a story.
Wolf, do you know of Lord of the Rings?
I think you'd like it.
Yes, I do know of it.
Oh, sweet.
Do you know of the Hobbit movies?
I think you'd like it.
Unfortunately, anyway, lies about giving Arthur the gun.
Thomas Wayne is a jerk.
He hits Arthur and possibly about being our.
Okay, let's do this one too.
So you find out that a crazy man came to your house.
He put his hands in your child's mouth and he strangled almost to death your butler.
And then he comes to you personally and says, daddy.
Uh, I mean, oh my God, not saying that Thomas Wayne isn't a jerk in this film.
That's fine.
I don't mind that.
But the idea that he punched him for like no reason or something.
It's like, there's, there's a reason.
The fact that he only punched him should say a lot about Thomas Wayne's restraint.
He talked to him for a minute or two.
He explained to him that his mom was not telling him the truth.
And he got his buttons pushed and then he punched him.
It's like, come on, context, dude.
You have to have the context there.
And yeah, because this is all he's got.
Also, I was going to say, you think he get his bodyguards to take him outside and beat
the shit out of him for a little while.
And this is all to aid in the idea that the world is like cartoonishly cruel or whatever.
Oh my.
Um, the idea of the world is cartoonishly cruel.
But it's just like, no, you've highlighted a bunch of things that make sense.
So there's the gun left.
Thomas Wayne is the jerky hits Arthur and possibly lies about being Arthur's father.
Murray makes fun of Arthur, an aspiring standup comedian at an open mic
who clearly has some sort of mental health or neurological issues.
It's not clear at all.
And I don't know, is it so
he's a bad to me.
Does it make you cruel to consume and critique someone else's work?
Because I don't know, guys.
I don't know.
What are we doing right now?
We're saying only if you criticize someone, you are the embodiment of Satan.
Well, we did drive tonaled off the internet.
Guess we are.
I actually am so sad about that.
Uh, still tonaled.
Come back.
You're my favorite person on the face of YouTube.
I need you to come back.
Come back on national television.
And Arthur's mom may have lied to Arthur about his father on top of all of that.
Why does he keep saying may have for these things?
We know the answer.
So this is what I've heard online.
So if you say if you cite the papers at Arkham,
they say that Thomas Wayne could have paid to have them doctored.
Based off of what?
The fact that he's rich and evil.
Yeah, I mean, some people have theories that, um,
she like they did fuck and then it did result in the kid.
But the kid was fucked up.
Thomas Wayne wasn't fucking with a mentally ill kid like it.
And then like, no, you take the kid crazy lady and then fuck off.
And that's, that's some theories I've heard.
I mean, I just, I don't think I need to watch the film again to get a full refresh, but whatever.
That's not the point he's making right now.
Anyway, he's trying to say that everything's mean.
And it, I guess I'm waiting for him to say like it's unrealistic or something out his father.
And on top of all of that, and I know how dumb this sounds,
but society seems to have left Arthur behind.
Oh wow.
I feel like the point of the movie.
The mental health program is shut down.
There's a garbage strike, super rats,
an out of touch plutocrat is running for mayor.
And the citizens of Gotham has become a violent mob.
Everyone is awful.
And that gives Joker an excuse not to question Arthur's beliefs.
It's too simple.
And interestingly, wait, so like the problem is that
it's implied that he just should start shooting people.
Is that what he's trying to say?
Like, oh, he concludes after all of this.
Yeah.
He's just going to start shooting people live on air.
He's going to incite riots.
And the film isn't saying anything about how wrong that is.
It's like, I mean, I've, I've got some arguments for why those sorts of things
could add badly.
But this is kind of where I'm at in terms of this movie being
it doesn't want to take a side and definitively claim
that either the people or the rich, the classified,
like one of them is right.
Because I don't, I think the film's point is that neither of them are right.
And so the idea that he's not challenged enough
is Thomas Wayne challenged enough because he was killed.
That counts as some form of a challenge, right?
Only in your subjectively objective opinion.
All right, then an interesting movie would feature a more complex society
and it's easy to compare Joker to the two movies that it's clearly
borrowing a lot of its themes and visuals and actors from taxi drive.
Hey, it's like bingo at this point.
So if I was actually doing it, you know, when I did.
Okay, go ahead.
At this point, I've never seen King of Comedy.
I've never seen Taxi Driver.
I don't even really know too much of Scorsese's works.
But at this point, it's like I'm going to like probably hate this movie
or these movies just like to spite these people.
They keep getting brought up.
I mean, I watched comedy and I didn't like it, but I'm not.
I do not like Scorsese movies.
And I was told the only reason I watched came in comedy
was because I was told that this movie seemed like it was going to be a similar plot.
And while there's, you know, similar things about it,
I feel like the Joker is different enough.
Reminds me of I like the both of them.
I think that they're very strong.
I actually would say that Taxi Driver is better than I like it.
And what I mean by that is I don't like it as much as I think it is very good.
I just it doesn't I don't respond very well to Travis Bickle as a character.
I don't really like him.
It's kind of like Daenerys up until season eight where I was like,
I think she's perfectly well written.
I just don't like her.
And you might be like, do you like Joker?
Like, yeah, I kind of like Arthur.
I can I can see how all of it worked out.
And I think that there could have been a good guy there.
I don't really feel the same way about Travis Bickle,
but that's a whole other fucking conversation.
Same for Rupert Pupkin, by the way.
He's the character from King of Comedy.
We need more.
You know, like how I reference A New Hope,
I reference the shit out of it when I'm talking about TFA copying it
because there are like specific events.
And like at the point I'm trying to make in my TFA series was that they copy them,
but then they don't copy the mechanics that led to these events.
And so their story is like worse for it,
because they're kind of like the parrot thing that Movie Bob was saying,
where you you take the parts that everyone remembers and you put them in yours,
but you don't earn your way there.
And so you just got this hollow copy.
And that's what a lot of people feel about TFA.
And I think it's very provable with Taxi Driver and King of Comedy.
The best people have is King of Comedy,
a guy who wants to be on a TV show that's very comedy focused.
It's like, oh, like how Arthur wants to get a Murray show rip off.
It's like, you've got to be more specific than that.
That's way too fucking broad.
Taxi Driver, a guy who is well, I was going to say down in his luck.
He's not really he chooses.
He's actually quite rich.
He admits to this.
Well, not rich, but he's got a lot of funds he doesn't know what to do with.
He's a taxi driver that works a lot of hours.
He's in a world that he sees as like disgusting and depraved.
But he only views the world from specific angles.
Like he goes to the depraved areas.
He goes out at night.
So he's very biased.
And he gets there's a lot of complicated elements to a taxi driver
that I probably shouldn't go into right now.
We'll save it for when we go over a bigger podcast about these two films
and how Joker's not a fucking rip off of them.
But my issue is, it's just like they usually go surface level with how it's a clone.
And it's really bothering me because I feel like you should put a lot more effort
in than just fucking echoing what every single other person fucking says, which is.
Joker's like taxi driver.
Joker's like a comedy.
Now he might do right.
So we'll give him a shot here.
But I've seen the both of these films.
I know them relatively well.
So we should be able to survive this portion of the video.
And visuals and actors.
Well, what I meant, by the way, but the not down on his luck is that
Arthur totally is to an extreme degree.
They're not in the same situation.
They're not in the same cities.
That's kind of where I was going with that from taxi driver and the king of comedy.
Both Scorsese masterpieces about an out of touch loner and society.
However, I think both of those movies do something very specific.
The Joker does not something that helps to explore the beliefs of the protagonist.
They're valuing way.
So that brings me to my one small change.
I believe Joker could easily introduce a character who is not awful.
Doesn't have to be perfect.
I can't with these.
I can't with these stupid takes.
All right.
We're going to let him continue, but we will we will put a notation.
We will put a notation.
There is a seed that explicitly states there is a Goodman and he is spared because he is a Goodman.
Just putting it out there.
I'm going to let you continue.
That's a footnote.
Who is not awful?
Doesn't have to be perfect.
Just someone that can call him on his B.S.
We can use that character to learn more about Arthur and society.
Get a more nuanced view on all of the themes of the movie.
In Taxi Driver.
This character is Betsy played by civil Shepherd.
The Palentine and Joker.
It's Robert De Niro and Gary.
So almost like you didn't watch the movie.
You simpleton.
It's like they want Joe.
It's like they want Joker to have some kind of fucking sidekick,
like some kooky sidekick who makes jokes and shit.
Come on, man.
Go talk to the girl, man.
Stop stalking her, man.
Yeah, so.
For reference for you guys, she's she's working on Palentine's goal to become local.
Like I think he might be running for president.
I can't remember.
It doesn't matter.
He like stalks her at first.
Travis Bickle.
And then he asked her out.
They talk about a lot of different things.
They go to you on a date.
He takes her on a date to see a porno.
And she's like, what the fuck?
And then she doesn't want to talk to him ever again because she realizes he's a fucking freak
or doesn't understand social cues to a degree.
Let's put it that way.
And he doesn't get it.
Like there's this conversation in the film where he's like,
don't people go to see stuff like this?
And it's just because he's he's got a very warped view of reality.
She I don't know if I go as far as saying she really calls out his ideas.
There's no real debate between them.
He gets to the point where he fucking hates her and it's very irrational
because he's a very complicated person.
I don't know.
I don't know if I'd describe it as she's she's his opposite in the film.
She does.
There's certain bits of dialogue that I'd say are challenging his ideas.
But I'm I'm also curious what exactly he means by having a character that what would
what would this theoretical character talk to Joker about?
Like you realize society isn't that bad, right?
I'd be like, OK, thanks.
Like like Arthur, you realize he's mentally ill.
There's a lot of good people out there, Arthur.
And he's just like, great.
I look forward to meeting them one day.
Travis Pickle.
Bickle, Bickle.
But Travis Pickle.
This is the thing.
Like this is very I guess half baked would be the choice of words I'd have.
I'm still maybe he's going to explain it.
I'll just let him carry on.
Who Travis courts goes on a date with and then embarrasses himself in front of taxi
driver is about this dirty, disgusting version of New York that Travis hates and wants to
clean up and that belief isn't necessarily held by Betsy, but she is also working for
a politician who wants to make changes.
So she represents the idea of change and turn Travis get along until she exposes the
contradiction at the heart of Travis.
He thinks New York is a dirty, disgusting mess that he also participates in.
He takes her to the pornographic movie theater on a date and that highlights the fact that
Travis takes part in this system that he believes needs to be destroyed.
I don't know that to a degree.
Sure.
But it's also Travis doesn't understand what's wrong.
He is very explicit.
He's like, this is something that people do.
And then even on their way into the to the show or movie, she's like, are we going to
see like a normal movie?
And then he's like, no, no, no, no.
And he literally says, I see couples seeing this stuff all the time.
Like he's based what he how he operates in society from what he's seen
while simultaneously not realizing the only views is like the underbelly sort of thing.
I'm still curious where he's going with this exactly.
That's why he can't go on a date with and have a normal relationship with Betsy.
It's the internal contradiction of Travis Bickle.
And you can only get at that with a character like Betsy.
I didn't get at that through here.
It was through the movie.
You see him make a lot of decisions that push him into that direct.
I feel bad, obviously, because you I'm assuming all three of you haven't seen Taxi Driver.
So I'm the only one that can really comment on this portion.
I've seen it, but it was like a long time ago, like when I was the kid.
You watched as a kid.
Yeah, I guess in fairness, I watched Alien when I was.
Yeah, I watched a lot of ties to me.
Yeah, the point being is that you can tell by watching the film that he's a
contradictive human being.
He has a lot of harsh views that aren't exactly fueled by anything strictly coherent.
It's like I said, it's a really good film.
I just don't I don't agree that Joker is improved by having a character that tells him,
hey, maybe you shouldn't hate society as much as you do because it's not all bad.
I don't I don't know.
I don't understand how Joker benefits from that.
Who exists outside of that world and can highlight Travis's contradiction.
The same can be said of Diane Abbott's Rita Keene in the King of Comedy.
In the King of Comedy, Robert De Niro plays Rupert Pumpkin, an aspiring stand.
Oh, but he's a stalker in that movie.
Rupert Pumpkin.
His name is Pumpkin.
And there's a joke in the film where everyone pronounces his name wrong.
And one of the wrong pronunciations is pumpkin.
And he just said pumpkin.
Damn you.
You're supposed to pay attention.
His name is Rupert Pumpkin.
It's okay.
Yeah, I guess.
Yeah, we'll see what his description of this is.
Outside of that world and can highlight Travis's contradiction.
The same can be said of Diane Abbott's Rita Keene in the King of Comedy.
In the King of Comedy, Robert De Niro plays Rupert Pumpkin, an aspiring stand-up comedian
who is obsessed with talk show host Jerry Langford and wants to be on his show.
And Rupert both desperately wants to be a stand-up comedian,
but does not want to do the work necessary to be a stand-up comedian.
He's very determined when it comes to things like sitting in offices
and making sure people get tapes.
Doesn't he?
Correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure the opening time he talks to Jerry
explains that he's been doing all of the shows and he's not getting anywhere.
Yeah, he does.
And he records his little tapes so that way he can send them out to places.
And he's tired of just doing that because he hasn't gotten noticed.
So that's why he goes to the office.
That's why he's that persistent.
That's why he becomes a stalker because he can't make it the regular route
that everyone is telling him to.
And that's one of the things that he insists on even at the end of the movie
when he finally goes on the show.
And he's like, the only reason I'm here is because I have this guy held up at gunpoint.
You all are laughing now, but you're going to freak out when you find out that it's true.
Because I did everything right and that didn't work.
So I had to go to these extremes to make this happen.
And then he writes a book about it and he becomes famous after he gets out of prison.
Did this guy not watch this movie either?
I just like he's I think he's trying to slightly twist both of the films to really
solidly present the argument that the presence of a character that contradicts them is what
made them strong or something like that.
But like, I'm already rushing ahead in my head here, like the character that Rita plays,
she she's not really in this film that much.
She's almost like a tag along basically for reference for the people who haven't seen this
film.
He he tells this girl from high school that he's like super famous and doing great when
he's not he's doing terribly.
And then he imagines a conversation with the TV host.
And I'm pretty sure we are we see we see him imagine it.
He's like talking to he's like he's a fair member.
He's like in an office with Jerry and they're like really good friends suddenly.
And they're discussing how he's going to go to his mansion.
And it makes no sense at all, like in terms of continuity, because Jerry doesn't even want to
get anywhere near him.
And so you're like, oh, this is fucking this is in his head.
And then we later see him invite that character to Jerry's mansion or whatever it is.
And they go there.
And Jerry's like, what the fuck are you doing here?
Like, this is like, you've just come into my house and invited because he gets into
like a servant, I guess.
And the and the idea that the girl is there to challenge him doesn't even make much sense
to me because Jerry is directly challenging him.
He's shouting at him for imagining all this shit.
You know, she just she's only there to basically be like, hey, this is fucked up.
We shouldn't have just apologize.
Like, I'm sorry, we'll leave.
You know, someone in chat said Rupert was lying.
He never performed anywhere.
I don't know that we can say that definitively, can we?
We don't have any proof of that.
He just because they don't go to show flashbacks or anything.
He just says that he's been doing it for a long time.
Yeah, I don't I don't know.
I don't know if we can I don't know if we can be definitive either way on that one.
But it's possible that he's not determined when it comes to working in comedy clubs and
getting there the way all the rest of the comedians do.
He instead likes to pretend he's already a part of that world.
And that's where Diane Abbott Rita comes in.
An old friend from high school who Rupert goes on a date with.
And during the date, he lies to her about being friends with Jerry,
where a character like Sandra Bernard's Masha exists within this diluted celebrity obsessed
world. Rita exists outside of it.
And when Rupert does something pretty bizarre, like goes to Jerry Langford's house unannounced,
Reed is able to call out how strange that is.
She but OK, do you see how many people were present in that screenshot?
They're all fucking calling him out, basically.
You got two housekeeper people and you got Jerry here and they're all like,
you're kind of insane having her say it.
Honestly, it's kind of less meaningful for her to say it than Jerry,
because Jerry is the one that he imagined the conversation with.
So to have him directly tell him and he doesn't by the way,
he doesn't fucking listen to him.
I don't even this isn't really even what he's saying.
It is like the idea that the question it provides a counter ideologically to the character's
viewpoint.
He denies all of it anyway.
He fine.
He finds Jerry's being extremely rude and that the girl is sort of like I can't remember
specifically, but he's not.
This doesn't convince him.
Pumpkin follows through throughout the whole film.
There's never a point where he thinks, you know what, maybe I'm wrong.
He literally fucking kidnaps the guy by the end of the film.
The only part where he kind of changes is when the guy tells him,
I only told you, like, I'll listen to your tape to get rid of you.
Right, yeah, which doesn't make him better.
It makes him worse.
But yeah, so it's these.
This is kind of where I'm at right now in terms of discussing
taxi driver, king of comedy and Joker.
They are so fucking different.
And so you have these people being like, I just kind of ripped stuff out of them.
And I'm like, what specific stuff are you talking about?
Like these are very different characters in very different worlds with very different problems.
Because the idea is the because pumpkin has imagined stuff.
Just like Joker imagined the girlfriend.
See, that's kind of you see what I mean.
And before anyone assumes anything, I'm not putting all of these arguments into this guy's video.
I'm just saying this is all stuff I've heard around these films.
So far, the only problem I've got with his assessment is that he's,
I don't know, missing a couple of things out of both these movies.
I'm more curious how he's going to get to back to Joker, I guess.
A reality check.
Who can call Rupert on his contradiction?
So if I could make one small change to Joker, I would introduce a character into the movie.
Well, that's not exactly right.
I would not unintroduce a character.
Sophie, played by Zazie Beets, would not spend most of the movie as a hallucination.
She would be actually dating Arthur.
For those who don't remember.
What reason would she have to do that?
Oh my God.
I like that we're already stuck.
Excuse me, sir.
You're right.
We have an issue.
Okay, well, we'll let him continue because let's just imagine for a second that
she's just dating him from the get go.
We don't even know why they're just a happy couple,
which changes a lot about this film.
But okay, that's the case.
For those who don't remember or people who haven't seen Joker but don't care.
Sophie is a seemingly single mother who lives in Arthur's building.
After a brief friendly interaction,
Arthur follows Sophie to her job at the bank.
Then she shows up unannounced at Arthur's apartment,
is remarkably cool with being stalked,
goes with Arthur to his open mic night,
goes on another date with Arthur, meets Arthur at the hospital,
and even does other things.
But then Arthur goes to Sophie's apartment and it is revealed
that Arthur was imagining their interactions.
The nice girl didn't actually like him.
Oh, that's another one for the bingo board people.
Everybody thinks that the flashbacks are dumb.
They're like knocking you over the head as if we couldn't figure it out.
I'm always just like this.
And I still stand by when I said the last time I was on that.
Yeah, I mean, I wish I said it last time.
The amount of people that still to this day think that the Eagles are a plot hole
in the Lord of the Rings is proof enough that you need to explain this shit
because the amount of people that pretend that they're smart enough to get this
still don't get all this shit.
First off, if it took away from the film, that would be one thing,
but it doesn't take away from anything.
And also, I'm already realizing you have to get that this story no longer works.
You have to get you have to have her get killed, kidnapped, or she leaves him.
You have to have one of those things happen now
because he can't have her and simultaneously hate the world
because there's a good chance, especially if they're not a healthy relationship
but a relationship that's working enough that they're together,
then he's going to find comfort in here, isn't he?
That's going to be why they're together.
So doesn't that severely alter this film to a drastic degree?
I guess he wanted to be kind of like that animated killing drug movie
where he had a kid and a wife and then he loses it and then he goes crazy.
Which is, you know, cliche.
Maybe he's about to do that in this rewrite.
She'll get killed or something.
That's all I'm expecting now.
She's going to get killed.
It'll be helpful because I actually just read the killing joke a few days ago.
I haven't seen the movie, but people tell me not to.
So I'm going to go with that.
Dumb moment because Joker trades an interesting character
who also happens to be one of two female main characters
and the single main character of color for a lame reveal.
Oh, I don't know if you guys call that.
I'll just play it again because that's not an argument to me.
Play what?
The dumb flashback.
Then maybe nothing played for me.
Oh, is it playing now?
No.
Hold on.
I'm going to refresh the page.
Okay.
There's no way this is a small change.
Yeah, there's the you cannot call this a small change.
Are you back in?
Imagining.
Is that working?
Mr. Ford.
All right, then.
Hello.
Hello.
Hello.
I don't know what happened.
Is it up for you now?
It's a department and it is that Arthur was imagining their interactions.
The nice girl didn't actually like him.
Cue dumb flashback.
Then maybe he kills her.
Who knows?
It's an incredibly dumb moment because Joker trades an interesting character.
What happens to be one of two female main characters
and the single main character of color for a lame.
That's the reaction I was expecting.
That's that's that's his problem with it.
It's always comes down to so like he describes what happens in the film as dumb.
And then he proceeds to say that it's bad because she's one of the two main female characters
and the only character of color who's a main character.
So like just extending his logic out.
If you are a person of color and female, you should not be a hallucination.
I'm going to keep that in mind for a future reference.
I just try not to be someone's hallucination.
What a weird thing to say, but okay.
One of two female main characters and the single main character of color
for a lame reveal.
It is both not worth it and not particularly affect.
Yeah.
So I'm going to walk you through how because having her be his girlfriend
and being killed off and that's what fuels his jokers.
And that's not cliche as fuck already.
Honestly, I'd be surprised if a lot of the audience members were if say,
for example, this relationship was real, like her dying would almost seem like,
well, you got to do that.
She's going to get killed, I guess, because you know, what else are you going to do?
Yeah, it's one of those like crowd pleasing things with movies.
Well, we got to have like the male protagonist like die.
Well, he's got to have something to fight for, like go crazy over.
And it's got to be a chick dying or his kid dying.
It's like it's the same shit.
It's like it's like taken, but with joker.
Yeah, it was like fucking stop joking.
Joking.
He's coming for all their lives and they thought he was just joking.
Oh, my God, I want to see a Photoshop of Liam Neeson with clown makeup now.
Yes, make it happen, everyone.
Um, yeah, also, I just wanted to point out we just got I don't know, like you had the
misogynist take from Bob and now you've got like don't kill people of color.
It's like why do the the identity politics bleed right in randomly as well?
Like that felt like it came out of nowhere.
Yeah, that's not not don't kill her.
Like don't hallucinate her.
It's rude to hallucinate her in real life.
That's what we want.
Yes, we soldier on about that.
Yeah, someone just separated the J.O.A. from the Q.U.I.N. and Joaquin's name for joking.
Would actually work.
It's really good.
I like that.
So I'm going to walk you through how making Sophie not a hallucination would address quite
a few of Joker's issues and give you an idea of what this alternate version of Joker would look
like.
You have to start with the first thing we need to slightly change the first encounter between
Sophie and Arthur.
Since they are actually going to be dating, there needs to be to demonstrate his value
to Sophie.
Show her that he can be a good guy.
Give her dude.
You're changing his character now.
Apparently, Jay just had to Google it and it exists already.
What does really joke?
Liam Neeson is the Joker.
Oh, my God.
Here we go.
That doesn't surprise me to be honest with you.
I want to see this now.
It's not really good, but I mean, the fact that it already exists is all right.
What's with like good on you?
Oh, it's done with like paint, I guess.
Okay.
Yeah.
What was the context for who made this?
They like Liam Neeson and the Joker.
I guess so.
It's very strange.
Reason to like him besides just holding an elevator.
I think this one's easy.
Arthur can use his clown talents.
I know he would say that stupid shit.
He can use his clown talents to woo the woman.
So do you remember,
and then I get them paintings.
Do you remember how she does the shot to the head and makes a sound then outside the elevator?
He goes, hey, like, you know, and she looks at him and then he does the same thing.
And she's just like, okay.
So like, he's not great with people.
He doesn't even understand why that would be interpreted as like a creepier thing to do.
He thought he was just sending back what she sent to him, you know, perfectly fine.
The idea that we turn him into a person who could feasibly successfully
have a female be like, wow, you're awesome.
It's like kind of changes his position.
Um, but okay.
Let's see what else he's got.
He's good with kids.
He does seem to be a genuinely good clown.
So Arthur makes the kids smile and brimming with confidence.
Arthur asks Sophie out to dinner.
She accepts first date.
Arthur takes Sophie to a comedy club.
But in this version, he is not performing.
They are just there to see a comedian.
A comedian I love and have been following since the last comic standing days.
His HBO special.
The Great Depression is so funny.
End of non-plug.
But it's a good date.
So much worse than the one that we actually watched.
That felt odd.
So the Great Depression is so funny.
End of non-plug.
And it's a good date.
Like in real life with the right comedian.
Comedy club can be a great first date.
Especially for Arthur because this is where he spends a lot of his time.
People know him.
And Arthur shares that you can't.
People know him and like changing the movie.
Arthur's got this whole selection of people that are having good times with
in the fucking comedy club, but he hates the world.
Like the reasons we need to disconnect him from all of these things.
That's the point like these people.
These people just don't want a movie about the Joker.
They want to feel good movie where at the end he becomes a good person.
Keep it going I guess.
It's a stream of being a comedian with Sophie and she's encouraging.
Maybe he can do it someday.
Now there's a balance.
Arthur's fired.
Things around him are going poorly.
But Sophie's giving Arthur some hope.
Now second date.
I like the idea of Sophie going to the open mic with Arthur.
Maybe he bombs in the beginning, but not quite as badly.
It goes fine and Sophie is supportive.
He just needs practice and Arthur kind of gets that he's doing okay.
But then we get the Thomas Wayne revelation.
And before Arthur confronts his mom, he tells Sophie.
Sophie tells him to drop it.
Take it from a single mother.
Why would you come with it?
What do you mean take it from a single mother?
What is that supposed to mean?
So he just basically wants like a dark romantic tragedy movie.
That's what he wants.
I didn't sign up to watch that movie.
I don't want to watch this movie.
It's a different movie.
Such a fucking champion for women.
But it's like she's only used some kind of talisman for him.
She died.
It's just it's cool for him to explore a different type of relationship.
I need to find out is Joker still in theaters
because I kind of want to watch it again just to spite these people.
I got like I'll do it like fourth time watching the movie.
Fine.
Okay.
I guess Google doesn't want to work for me right now.
Damn you, Google.
I'm going to go grab some food.
I'll be right back.
Good.
I love how he doesn't even I love how he doesn't even include.
Like Arthur's mental illness and how like the girlfriend would deal with that
and how she would like respond.
It's all about.
Well, it's kind of awkward.
Like the way he described it like like Arthur Arthur's just kind of awkward.
And that's it.
Like he doesn't.
It does actually sound like a DACA robotic comedy.
Like you see the trailer.
It's like I love you.
I love you too.
Like really crappy musicals like this is like in his job.
And then it's like you're fired.
And he's like no.
And then the date with the girl.
He's like you're fired.
The meme only made you.
And then.
You know, I'm just picturing this super generic film, which is not what this was going for.
Yes.
Sophie brings perspective to Arthur.
He needs to move.
So a part of the reason why Arthur does what he does is because he doesn't have full perspective.
He doesn't understand fully what everybody's doing and why they're doing it.
All he gets is the results and he's fucking tired of it.
And you know, I don't think that he's necessarily wrong for fucking
hating all of the results that keep ending up.
But you know, as the psychiatrist explains, it's not like the whole world is out for him.
It's that it sucks for everybody.
But it doesn't fucking matter because it's going to feel personal regardless.
Like the idea that we need this fucking goofy ass character to be like,
hey, man, it's you don't want to chin up.
Okay.
All right.
Forward.
But Arthur lies.
He can't help himself.
He tells his mother she ends up in the hospital.
And while Arthur is in the hospital, Arthur's video shows up on the Murray Franklin show.
And not to nitpick, not unlike my podcast, mostly nitpicking.
Please subscribe.
More.
Oh, my.
Three hundred and twenty two episodes.
All right.
Going strong.
What did I miss?
Nothing.
Nothing.
He plugged his podcast down and check it out.
Okay.
Check out his podcast.
What an unattractive name for a podcast.
Mostly nitpicking.
Like nitpicking.
Oh, they have an episode on the boys.
I don't want to see that shit.
I want to see that.
Please nitpicking.
Please subscribe.
This isn't a viral video kind of situation.
I don't think viral videos were a thing in the early eighties.
What makes you think this is a viral video?
Does that matter anyway?
It's Murray Franklin playing a clip on his show.
They explain it in the fucking movie.
You guys see this.
This is really this is really, really good.
Hmm, let's see.
Oh, no.
Oh, geez.
That's so creepy.
No theme.
Nothing.
Misogynist.
Pointless.
Jug has had enough of this society, man.
Oh, can't deal with this.
It's like the hunchback of no.
Hunchback and blob were dumb.
Oh, man.
I feel for Joker this image too.
Poor guy.
Okay.
Yeah.
So I don't like this the way people are framing this.
It's not like a fucking YouTube video.
It's the eighties.
They don't have it.
It's like a person who runs a comedy show.
Plays a clip from a stand-up comedian with a joke that bombed and he's going to use it to burn
the guy immediately after to cause hilarity with his audience.
This is not impossible for the eighties, nor is it unheard of.
Can we please drop the whole reaction stuff as orderly now?
I mean, just like how memes exist now, like,
oh, well, what you would call it back in the day is just like a running joke.
You would see something in it and they would just make reference.
Like, where's the beef shit from the eighties?
People would parody that or repeat that because it's popular.
It's famous.
It doesn't have to be on fucking YouTube for that to happen.
But all right.
I want to die.
I want to die.
What I ever wanted.
Ladies, I don't even kind of understand how that happens at all.
Let's have Sophie have submitted the tape from the open mic.
Maybe why is that more believable?
Why would she submit a tape where he didn't get a good reaction?
It just sounds like she wants to humiliate it.
Honey, why didn't you give my tape to the guy on TV?
Because I love you, Joker.
Oh, so she's just as delusional as him then.
Okay.
Maybe I don't know if that's where he's going with this.
Is she because he's she's supposed to be the counter, right?
Okay.
Some sort of contest for aspiring stand up comedians where if you send their video in
and they do well, Murray will have them on the show.
She sees Arthur set and she's like, oh, maybe this is good enough.
So he established the people were enjoying it that much.
Like, maybe this is good.
Oh, my God.
Why would she do this?
Why would she wait until he delivers one that makes everyone laugh?
Like, what the fuck?
Actually, it makes it even funnier.
It makes it even funnier when you picture him like she sends in the tape and it like
they make fun of him and says she kill.
He kills her because she's so stupid.
That's the move.
Fucking humiliated me.
He doesn't even try to kill Murray.
He just goes straight there like, why the fuck would you do it?
He goes to Murray's show.
Murray's like, why did that bitch of a girlfriend said that video?
He's like, I don't know.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
What is this?
I don't know.
It's a rewrite.
Accept it.
It's a rewrite.
Oh, my God.
I hope he never becomes a writer ever.
I hope he owns his craft.
Like some people some people just shouldn't do the things you want to do.
OK, sometimes you're just not good at it and you need to accept it.
I'm sorry.
Yep.
He can aspire to be better.
I just don't.
It's tough to be better than the joke.
Oh, here's the thing.
You can aspire all you want.
But sometimes you just don't get the things you want.
Yeah, I'm on the show.
She sees Arthur set and she's like, oh, maybe this is good enough.
So she secretly sends this tape to Murray Frank.
Such a fucking bitch.
This is horrible.
I've seen him going like, why the fuck did you send that tape?
Like he's just shaking this shit.
Points at him.
Everything that's wrong with society is your fault.
OK, no, no, no, no, no, it was good.
Seems like a nice thing.
And it just seems more plausible.
But are seems more plausible.
Oh, less plausible.
Less plausible, more funny.
Well, this man is going to make me laugh.
Super nice thing.
And it just seems more plausible.
But Arthur sees his video on the show and he's made a fool of.
So he blames Sophie and they can get in a fight.
Wait, wait.
What happened?
They got into a fight.
They want.
Please tell me that she kills this one.
You know how much people would say that this movie was misogynist.
They oh, yeah.
She was just trying to help him.
It's like we came up with a joke and it might be that he's going with it.
I don't know.
We blame Sophie making get in a fight and she leaves.
And then Arthur goes and confronts Thomas Wayne.
He's spinning out of control.
Thomas tells Arthur that his mom was crazy.
This makes Arthur feel even worse.
Also, let's have some people recognize Arthur on the street from the Murray Franklin show
and make fun of him show that there are some consequences to him being on TV.
But then Arthur gets a call from the Murray Franklin show
and learns that Murray wants to have him on.
This is just the film now.
So is that it?
That's his edit.
Maybe there's more to this, but I just the idea that he needed a girlfriend.
Okay, let's see if he changes it to the girls.
This is huge.
What an opportunity.
This will be the first kiss between Arthur and Sophie.
Sophie and Arthur work together.
I've clearly missed something.
Hang on.
Let's let's go back.
Let's go by the but then Arthur gets a call from the Murray Franklin show
and learns that someone in the chat said, how about another joke?
So Faye.
Come on.
This is huge.
What an opportunity.
This will be the first kiss between Arthur and Sophie.
So he and Arthur work together on new.
Oh, so they have a fight.
She leaves.
He gets a call saying he's going on the show
and they get back together and kiss.
So he did you leave out the entire part of him
murdering people on the subway for harassing a woman?
I don't know.
The problem is when you do a rewrite, you need to tell us what you've kept.
I don't know what he's kept.
I know he's dropped, apparently.
I'm guessing everything else stays the same.
But then if it does, getting lost, Mr.
Mr. Nando.
This will be the first kiss between Arthur and Sophie.
Sophie and Arthur work together on new material.
It's good.
I don't believe for a second that she would stay with him if he flipped out on it
after they just had a date for the first time.
You know what I mean?
That's a fucking as red flags go.
I mean, especially considering our nutty as he is, like he would flip out a little,
you know, be a little dynamic.
His flip out would be a little more dynamic than the usual person.
Because then you also have to think she's not only thinking about herself,
she's thinking about her child.
She's like, do I want this crazy person around my child?
It's going to flip out over something.
No, apparently, this version of Sophie is an absolute retard.
She's a plot device in this one.
And you could be like, well, she's a plot device.
The other one, I'd be like, no, she's like a full on character.
And the other one that has nothing to do with Arthur.
She's freaked out by the the attempt at almost converting her into a plot device
for him is thwarted because it's not real.
Like, you know, I think it's much more meaningful than she's there to tell him.
Everything is good.
And then she wait, let's see.
Let's see what else he does.
I'm curious what else is going to happen to this film.
Now that she's back in Arthur and Sophie.
Sophie and Arthur work together on new material.
It's good stuff.
Arthur's happy.
But then Arthur finds the picture with Thomas Wayne on it.
So Arthur continues to investigate.
Hold on.
Well, I have something completely else to say about Sophie.
So he said that she sends in the tape thinking it's good to Murray Franklin,
which is what causes the outburst in the first place.
Now she's going to work with Arthur.
Clearly, if she thought that the first tape was good,
she doesn't have a good gauge of what good comedy is.
Well, neither does he.
So why in the world?
Why in the world would they work together?
So she's fucking him over even more.
This is such a stupid.
I don't like this version.
Learn that she was committed to the asylum,
but he blames Thomas Wayne.
Wayne must have institutionalized Arthur's mother to keep the secret.
And Arthur becomes even more obsessed with Thomas.
You know, I wonder if there's going to be like a Chris Stuckman situation with this
where he'll like cry over this.
Tell that to Zod snap neck.
Do you guys know the context for that?
I feel like Anna probably is at least.
Oh, okay.
Good fucking.
Do you know about Chris Stuckman's rewrite for Batman of his Superman?
No, no, tell her, tell her.
Well, I mean, I don't know it word for word.
I just know the payoff part, which is I haven't really seen much.
I saw the reaction to the end of the video.
I haven't seen the actual video.
We should do a new family.
We read a script out.
We'll have Fringy because Fringy fucking loves this meme.
So the idea is like, I think that he's written a seed where they like
try to chastise each other.
Batman Superman for not being like moral enough or whatever.
And it goes something along the lines of this.
Like a Superman says like the Batman is a hypocrite.
He's like trying to get justice through horrible means.
And then like Batman's response is like tell that to Zod snapped deck.
No, no, that's not real.
He did that.
He was proud of it first.
He was proud of it first.
And then when everyone hated it, he was like, oh fuck, I just tried to bury it.
Yeah.
I remember he, oh God, he posted a video like, like he posted, like he was,
yeah, he was so proud of it.
He posted a video of him like reciting the lines and oh God,
his flat voice just reciting that bullshit is hilarious.
And there's a line in the video where he says something to the effect of,
and I wrote this in only 20 minutes, pretending that it was so much
pretending that it was so much better than what we actually got.
Stop talking.
You're not helping yourself.
Yeah, I was great.
Finding that out.
He's also, he has this video that he's, I think he's gotten rid of now,
but you can still find it on YouTube.
Just look for Chris Stuckman, Red Let Media response or something like that.
Oh yeah.
Where he's like, yeah, I saw that.
Yeah.
Red Let Media just said like where we, because they have that new review series.
It's one of their first ones, I think.
And they're like, oh, look, we're sitting in a chair and we've got a red background.
We're like those pricks.
And then Rich Evans is like, which pricks?
He's like, you know, the pricks with the red background.
They just show like three icons.
One of them is like Albin Skeptic.
I think it's Jeremy Johns, Albin Skeptic and Chris Stuckman.
And it's a fucking joke.
Just, you have a red background.
That's all he said.
And like, he's got this video where he's like, I can't believe they did this.
Oh my God.
He said, he said, he said, he said, I immediately removed them from my call,
from my hero's page or some shit.
And then he says, like, he says quickly after that, like, I wasn't mad or anything.
But it was an impulse decision.
That means you were fucking mad, you jackass.
Jesus Christ.
I wasn't, I wasn't mad though.
Genuinely, if I was called a prick by Rich Evans on a Red Let Media video,
I would feel like I've ascended.
It would be amazing.
Yeah.
Funny thing is, is the people in the comments of that video were like saying exactly that.
It's that they would feel proud of the fact that they were insulted by him.
It's just wonderful.
The idea of Rich Evans calls you a prick, but he took it like really personally.
Anyway, he said, he said, he DM'd him.
He said, are we good?
We're good, right?
It's funny because like fucking that's how being wolf met.
It's pretty much that.
Like, okay, I'd read it to my Facebook.
Sorry, anyway, Nando, carry on.
A secret and Arthur becomes even more obsessed with Thomas.
He writes jokes about killing Thomas and Arthur extrapolates that out and blames society for
everything that happened to his mother and him.
Then Arthur goes to Wayne Manor, he acts weird around Bruce and Alfred and Arthur comes home
and we get this big confrontation between Sophie and Arthur.
Arthur walks into the apartment.
He's so out of order.
Also, what's he confronting about?
Is it his jokes?
Yeah, because didn't they just get back together?
Yeah.
Okay.
So he already had the guy go confront Thomas Wayne, but it's like the scene that he's showing
with Bruce Wayne happened before.
So he's just like re-editing the movie and adding and shit and getting things all jumble fucked up.
Like really, dude?
Really?
You're taking something great and making it into shit.
Hey, man.
He thinks it's better, okay?
It's fine.
And we get this big confrontation between Sophie and Arthur.
Arthur walks into the apartment, finds Sophie holding the joke book.
What the hell's this?
Where'd you find that?
She's holding a joke book.
What the fuck is this?
It's like a joke book.
Where'd you find that?
I was like, it's on the table, but okay.
All right, sorry.
I'll take this seriously.
What's going to happen?
To the apartment, find Sophie holding the joke book.
What the hell's this?
Where'd you find that?
Oh, I had an idea I wanted to write down.
But what does Thomas Wayne get when he crosses a society full of people he treats like trash?
He gets what he deserves.
That's not...
Knock, knock.
What?
It's the police, Mrs. Wayne.
Your husband Thomas was killed by a drunk driver.
That doesn't make sense.
Thomas Wayne...
He just writes a bunch of blatant murder jokes?
Okay.
Okay.
Took everything from my family.
It's nice how all these people who really don't like this movie,
you're trying to rewrite it and remove the subtlety from the film,
but you're telling the film that it's stupid.
Okay.
And that fucking dialogue, he took everything from my family.
Like, this is not a fucking take.
What does that remind you of?
A certain TV show?
Only me and you will get this because Rags is currently away.
But that moment where he goes, tell me, tell me about you hate the Bat symbol.
You took everything from me.
Oh, shit.
Yes, you're on par with Batwoman now.
Congressionations.
Yeah, for reference, anybody, go watch Efap react to episode six of Batwoman.
That's what we're talking about.
It's fucking hilarious.
The whole episode, all of it.
Nando may have been inspired by Batwoman.
I don't know.
Thomas Wayne took everything from my family.
And you have a chance to start over to be something.
In this version, everything runs the same with the files, right?
So I guess Joker's angry that Thomas fired her still.
Is that, what does he think something, what does he mean by took everything?
I agree with you.
Exactly.
Okay.
Everything from my family.
And you have a chance to start over to be something and you're going to throw it all away.
I will never do anything because of him.
You're going to throw it away by telling her.
What is so bad about it?
He was like, knock knock about the Wayne.
Your husband's dead lol.
I just feel like dude, dude, he's all that funny.
Honestly, I'm being completely.
I'm going to go to joke.
I don't know, but weird.
And you're going to throw it all away.
I will never be anything because of him.
Blame Thomas Wayne, blame society, blame the rats.
Blame me.
You don't understand what it's like to be abandoned, to be on your own.
Get so much self.
Oh my God.
This is garbage.
I got a, I got a smirk throw all of this.
It was like, okay, this is what we're dealing with super melodramatic conversation between
two characters that barely know each other, by the way, uh, as evidenced by the fact that
she's about to do a diatribe about how she's downtrodden from society, I guess,
but it's not society's fault because that's, that was his point, I think.
By the way, this doesn't happen in King of Comedy or Taxi Driver.
There's no scene where a character says your fundamental beliefs are incorrect.
Travis Bickle or Rupert Pupkin.
That's not, you get a character, your characters get angry, angry at them,
but you get that with Thomas Wayne and Murray.
So I don't, it's kind of what I mean by those references bugging me, but okay.
To be on your own, get so much self-bitty,
but it's just an excuse for you to do whatever you want.
You're so selfish.
Um, also there's still hasn't been one fucking mention of his mental illness.
Also having a character calling him selfish at this moment.
Um, all right.
If I get this, that doesn't really, uh, this is sludge.
It's a little bit.
Self-bitty, but it's just an excuse for you to do whatever you want.
You're so selfish.
And then Sophie leaves, that's all we need.
Joker never examines this point of view.
Arthur definitely has.
What is the point of having a character challenge him
if he's not going to consider the point of view?
What the fuck's the point of it?
Is it the audience?
Are we supposed to go, oh look, a character disagrees with murder.
Like, okay.
I mean, geez, man.
Like, just take out the mental illness and give him a girlfriend.
Fuck it.
Fuck it.
I don't know.
Yeah.
I don't know if he still has that.
This is the thing.
He didn't mention that part.
So I'm guessing it's the same and make it shit.
That's what this guy wants need.
Joker never examines this point of view.
Arthur definitely has problems.
He's alone.
He's broke.
Has some sort of serious neurological, general mental health issues.
But I mean, we don't know that he's saved all the money that he had
and just live simply.
Your world building sucks, buddy.
They never talk about his financial situation at all.
He's not even worried about money when he does his job.
I know the mom is like writing that she wants money,
but that's because she wants to live in a nicer neighborhood
in a nicer apartment.
Arthur seems completely content where he lives.
You know, he doesn't seem like he's interested in material objects.
It seemed to me that he hated the idea of getting bailed out by the Waynes,
that he wanted to do it himself.
Which by the way, when people say like he's a deplorable character,
I was like, I don't know.
He seemed to be providing for his mother,
which was something of a virtue to a degree.
But OK.
Has some sort of serious neurological, general mental health issues.
That the girlfriend is the mental problem.
Women, am I right?
Jay said what he's describing is what I'd expect
the director of the Hagova movies to write for a Joker movie.
Oh, Jay.
Jay, you're supposed to like him.
You're supposed to be the nice man.
But I mean, black single mother in the 80s,
in the era of the welfare queen, that's not easy.
Sophie is truly marginalized.
The kind of person that society really leaves behind.
But Sophie has a child to take care of.
Why are you saying this?
Like, it applies more to her than Joker at this point.
Like, she is left behind.
He, you know, she's she's the real Joker.
She's the real.
Sounds like he's trying to develop her into a character
that has been just as dislodged by society as he has.
But she's dealing with it in a better way.
And he's going to become the Joker.
She's the counterpoint.
You don't have to be a Joker.
It's like, OK, this is what I mean.
I'm waiting for him to tell me what this achieves.
Hopefully he does that.
So she can't just pity herself.
Joker's about a lot of things.
Mental illness, society, guns.
Like, if Joker's about anything, it's a movie about a desperate.
Jackass.
Wait, did he even mention guns in this rewrite of his list?
Or is he talking about the actual movie at this point?
No, he's talking about the movie,
but they don't fucking prioritize.
It has a gun in it.
They don't talk about guns.
I want to hear that.
The kind of person that society really leaves behind.
But Sophie has a child to take care of,
so she can't just pity herself.
Joker's about a lot of things.
Mental illness, society, guns.
Like if Joker's what does he what does he mean?
It's about guns.
There's guns in it.
Does he just try to make a comment on gun control or the the
is probably what he's reading into the lethality of guns?
Because I don't think that many of us, you know,
all the guns were plastic items.
But OK, about anything, it's a movie about a desperate loner
who is given a gun and immediately becomes a violent murderer.
It's too much to talk about now,
but look up the trigger pulls the finger,
gives Joker a new meaning that I don't hear discussed nearly enough.
But at its core, I need to do that again.
You kind of lost me there.
Guns like if Joker's about anything,
it's a movie about a desperate loner who is given a gun
and immediately becomes a violent murderer.
It's too much to talk.
Whoa.
All right.
So the gun is for self defense.
He loses his job thanks to having it,
and he does actually use it in self defense.
He doesn't become a psychopathic murderer the second that he's provided the gun.
There are other things going like.
Wow, that's a read, I guess.
I like his first like real fucked up kill that might have been.
That it was like like unjust was the one he stabbed
that dude in the neck with a screwdriver.
Right.
Well, the guy the guy he hunted down on the staircase,
most would argue was pretty fucking harsh.
At least in that point,
there's like at least a little bit of justification
because all three of them are beating the shit out of him.
And he's just in a rage at that point.
So is it excessive?
Yes.
Is it completely unjustified?
I don't think so.
Not completely.
You do get tried differently under law when you're in like,
you're seeing red or you're in a fit of rage, right?
Versus a cold calculated murder, I believe.
Especially if you were attacked by the person.
Did you ever watch the movie A Time to Kill?
No, I don't think so.
Oh, it's so good.
It's with Matthew McConaughey, Sandra Bullock,
Samuel Jackson, and Kevin Spacey.
And like Keith or Sutherland and Donald Sutherland.
Came out in 1994.
So basically, it takes place in the South.
And Samuel Jackson's eight year old daughter
gets raped by these, you know,
basically white supremacist rednecks.
And so they know that the guys are going to get off
because they're in a really racist part of the South.
And so Samuel Jackson goes to Matthew McConaughey,
who's a lawyer and he's like,
are they going to get off?
And Samuel Jackson's like, yeah, they're going to get off.
They're going to maybe go to prison for like a few months
and then they're going to get out.
And so Samuel Jackson goes and shoots them
like when they're on their way to court,
because, you know, they raped his eight year old daughter.
So he murders them in front of all these people.
He goes to jail and Matthew McConaughey is defending him.
And his plea is that he's pleading insanity.
That Samuel Jackson murdered these guys
because of what they did to his daughter
and it drove him to be insane.
And that's the whole thing that they're trying to prove
is that he was temporarily insane
because of that situation.
And so the case is them trying to say,
no, he's not insane.
He did it.
It was premeditated versus him being insane.
It's really good.
Maybe you should watch it.
Yeah, you know, I'll pop it on the ever growing list.
So like, yeah, just coming back to the whole,
I think he's just trying to describe some form of a trope.
I guess he's trying to say that the joke replies to it.
Like, let's just play this fully so you hear everything.
Jokers about anything.
It's a movie about a desperate loner who is given a gun
and immediately becomes a violent murderer.
It's too much to talk about now,
but look up the trigger,
pulls the finger,
gives Joker a new meaning that I don't hear discussed nearly enough.
Gives Joker a new meaning that I don't hear.
Maybe it's because no one else is stupid.
Yeah, it's because no one else is stupid enough to make this point.
Not even similar.
I don't think anyone would agree that joke is that simple.
It's like, no, it's not just a film
but a guy who gets a gun becomes a killer.
That's ridiculous.
Mallard, Mallard.
Guns have electrical signals that go into your brain
and make you kill people.
There's no other explanation.
Yeah, that's why I own guns.
And, you know, I have yet to kill people.
But, you know, that's a thing that these SJW think.
Well, I guess he's saying that I don't even entirely know.
He said that, like, gives the gives the film new meaning
or like if he said if the Joker is about anything,
and it's like, I don't like it when they do that.
I don't like it at all.
It's like, that's not what it is.
But also, Pikachu, one of our regular artists made this.
Oh, boy.
Let's see.
That's the cutest I've ever looked.
Yes.
Yeah.
Oh, cute.
You can we can enjoy this for a little bit before we go back
to the pain.
So cute.
Pikachu is the resident cute drawing person.
Do you have purple hair?
Oh, yes.
Now I do.
I say that we've got a couple of cute drawing people, actually.
But, yeah, anyway, I go back to also.
Yes, I guess we should acknowledge Rags has
been gone for a little bit.
He said he'd be back.
I guess he's fine.
All right.
Yeah, just just one last time here and say it again,
just to really make sure it's when he's saying it's a movie
about a desperate.
Sorry, I gotta go for the back.
He has a child to take care of, so she can't just pity herself.
Joker's about a lot of things.
Mental illness, society, guns.
Like if Joker's about anything, it's a movie about a desperate loner
who is given a gun and immediately becomes a violent murderer.
It's too much to talk about now, but look up.
The trigger pulls the finger.
Gives Joker a new meaning that I don't hear discussed nearly enough.
But I had a trigger pulls the finger.
I didn't quite catch that myself.
The trigger pulls the finger.
All right.
He said, look up, trigger.
Pull the finger.
We can't talk about that right now because it's just too deep
for you pleb bitches.
Ridiculous.
Okay.
Literally making the guns kill people, not people kill people argument.
I'm not even going to say what it is.
He say he doesn't spend seconds on it.
So I guess it's not the name alone.
The trigger pulls the finger implies.
Right.
Right.
Yeah.
Rip bookie two nine eight eight.
Did he off himself?
That's a meme as far as I know.
Oh, just to say that he's dead regularly.
I don't know.
Oh, so it's like the Brett Keene thing.
I think so.
Like if anyone says a boogie has died, don't trust it until.
Well, I don't know.
I don't know what would make me trust it until it shows up on Twitter, I guess.
I guess.
Yeah.
Apparently enough, but at its core, Joker is about a man who cannot move forward
because he believes he is a victim taxi driver because he is.
He is a victim.
What the fuck?
But okay.
Carry on.
King of comedy worked where Joker didn't because they were able to take their
protagonist to task.
Call him on his contradiction because both characters are contradictions.
Travis Pickle hates the ugliness in New York City, but he also participates in it.
Rupert wants to be famous without doing any of the work he's determined yet entitled.
He does do the work at the end.
He comes up with a comedy skit.
There's actually like not too bad.
I remember I watched this film with metal and he was like, oh, is this going to turn out
to be really bad?
Like the when he finally gets on stage and like his jokes aren't too bad.
They're like, you're like, oh, these are okay.
And it's part of the point of the film.
I think that he what do we think about the results that because he does go to jail
because he kidnapped somebody to get the position he wanted.
But then he gains fans while he's in jail.
And then when he's finally out, he gets his own show just because of the fame.
And so there's something to think about there.
I suppose what the show is trying to say.
A lot of people try and argue that both the endings of Taxi Driver and
King of Comedy are in the characters heads.
But as far as I'm aware, Martin Scorsese and I think one of the producers or writers or
something of Taxi Driver said that the ending is very much real.
It's not in his head.
And I think something similar goes the same for King of Comedy.
I'm not going to say that for sure, though.
I need to check on it.
But the idea that comes out with like a book on like his people argue that that's all in his head.
I don't think so.
I think that was a message that I don't know.
I feel like based on the story that was trying to be told was that even when he goes up and he says
in front of everyone on stage and he's like, I had to do this.
You forced me to be this radical because you wouldn't listen to me.
You wouldn't give me the time of day.
So I had to force my hand and that's why I'm here.
And you guys are all, you know, laughing at my jokes and you guys are all going to be like
even horror struck and laughing after you find out that everything I'm telling you is true.
And I thought that was kind of a poetic justice for when he goes to prison,
he writes his book and he becomes even more famous because of what he did.
Sure.
That's what I got from the movie.
And this is the thing like he's just concluded now.
By the way, Nando has practically said that his rewrite is just better than the movie.
And it's like, if you say so.
But the specific element he's looking for is a character that challenges these people.
But like, again, I don't even believe that actually happens in Taxi Driver.
And it kind of does in King of Comedy, but it has no effect on the character.
And like, it only happens in the same vein that you have somebody fucking shouting at him,
which these things happen in Joker.
So I just don't I don't agree with him.
I don't follow through.
And I really feel like, you know, I'm cynical at this point.
The people referencing Taxi Driver or King of Comedy.
I'm just like, you're just doing this because this is the thing to do.
Like as a video essayist, this is what you're supposed to do to sort of
flex your credentials, if you will.
Like, I know my films.
Stretch out your lame ass videos.
I gotta get those mid-rolls.
I gotta get those mid-rolls.
He's the same kind of guy.
I'll get a little more clumsily.
He wants to be popular and loved, like Rupert, as evidenced by the fantasy.
But he doesn't want to do stand up.
Arthur just wants attention, but he doesn't actually want it.
Because when Arthur gets the opportunity, the chance to be on national TV,
he doesn't see it as an opportunity.
He sees it as a problem.
Yeah, Murray's a jerk to Arthur, but Arthur is still a want to be stand up comedian
who is about to go on a national talk show.
Arthur and the movie never consider the fact that this could be a huge win for Arthur.
Arthur immediately decides that this is a bad thing.
His life is over.
And yeah, Arthur-
I think his life was already over before he got that call.
Wasn't it like everything was already falling apart?
And he saw the Murray show as just perfect for a platform for him to kill himself on.
Like, it all comes back to that line, right?
I hope my death makes more sense than my life.
Yeah.
But all right.
Did murder those guys on the train,
but the police don't seem to have that much on him.
Arthur could either.
Jay wants me to skip back a bit.
Jay, what do you want?
He's the only said is no, that's not skipping back.
Why don't you skip back a bit, Jay?
Yeah, Jay.
Jay, I have an hour left on the show.
I'm we're what of how many minutes we have left.
You're probably probably close to the end, you think,
because he said that the end is going to involve a big personal message.
So as soon as he gets to that, we'll probably stop because, you know,
it's not analysis anymore.
It's more like whatever's going on with him in his channel, which is fine.
Why is it Chinese spam?
What the hell?
Yeah, I don't know what in the world is going on.
Okay, give me one sec.
Maybe you have friends in China.
No, we definitely don't know.
He said Travis Pickle.
Really?
Jay, do you know how far back we have to go for that?
Also, kind of Wolf, do you want to be a mod so that you can
you can hit the Chinese people while I'm doing everything else?
Sure.
Just say someone in chat.
So I'll just fucking module them.
Oh, so much spam.
I don't have to say.
Freaking gone.
Jay, find the timestamp.
You can do it yourself.
I'm sure of it.
Did you say something?
Okay, there we go.
I did the thing.
There you are.
Oh, all right.
Wow, you just command me to make you a model.
That is fucked up, dude.
There you go.
Now you can kill Chinese people.
Like you can be a lot of power, dude.
I mean, if they show up again, you'll be fine.
Chat, it's all right.
You're all right.
It's fine.
It's all right, chat.
I got you.
Apparently him saying Travis Pickle is way too far back.
I like that he would have fucked up both protagonists
for both those movies, though.
Sounds funny.
All right.
Let's go over India.
Arthur did murder those guys on the train,
but the police don't seem to have that much on him.
Arthur could either just ignore the police
and hope he doesn't get convicted
or he could explain a situation, claim self-defense,
which it's kind of true except for that third guy.
But hey, maybe just say that you were fighting with him
or something.
Listen, I'm not suggesting that Arthur should lie
or anything like that to the police,
but he does have options.
This doesn't need to be the end of his life.
We need a character.
Okay, so he's like saying,
oh, Arthur, you shouldn't feel like it's all over
just because you can cover up these murders.
Like, I think it goes deeper than that, dude.
It's not just the fact that he's killed people.
Actually, would you?
Can't you just like block flute musician?
Oh, well, you can just ban him, right?
Oh, I don't know.
So it looks like Jenna and Daspo shit made,
deleted his shit.
Oh, yeah, if they're here, they'll kill him too.
No worries.
I'm sorry, China.
You're not welcome here.
Yeah, there's more to, I don't know.
I'm trying to argue that he's like,
hey, Joker shouldn't feel like killing himself
at that point in the movie.
I just feel like, oh, okay.
I love the idea, by the way,
that let's just say Nando is a friend of his in the movie.
He's like, dude, it's not all over.
You can just say that those murders were an accident.
Like, what the fuck?
Like, I'm dealing with all of that.
Come on, bro.
Come on, bro.
Go to this gun control rally with me.
You can really learn something.
Guns are by it.
The trigger pole, the figure.
Oh, my God.
Whatever you do, don't fall asleep.
You're saying that there's a movie of way Luke Skywalker
runs around killing children.
She's just...
It's wonderful.
We need a character to give Arthur that perspective.
Present him with a choice.
Use his appearance to get revenge on someone
who wronged him in the past.
Or ignore that and use the appearance to get a better future.
Arthur chooses the past.
And that sends him down a self-destructive path
that ends with him murdering a talk show host
and maybe inciting a riot.
Although it's empty.
Now he's doing a bad path.
He's changed way too much for this to work the same way.
How is he supposed to improve his fucking image
if he killed people on a fucking TV show?
But now he's going on the wrong path
when he decides to go on a talk show.
I like the whole.
I just tell the right jokes.
I can salvage my image, man.
I like how much he's desperate to try and create
this choice at the end of the movie.
Wait, and you saw what he was like.
He's like, oh, there's multiple accounts
for hiding on the channel.
We're not idiot.
Yeah.
Oh, gosh.
Look, the flute musicians coming in.
Don't worry, chat.
The mods are doing everything they can.
I'm sure of it.
Um, oh, I imagine some extra people are probably
getting booped by accident as well.
I'm sorry, Hong Kong.
But yeah, I was just going to say
that he's like desperately could drive
a choice at the end of the film.
When I'm assuming the point of the film
was that he was on like a one way track
thanks to all of these outside elements.
Like it would have turned even the most normal people
insane, but he also had to have a fucking mental illness
on top of everything else.
Um, I'm just picturing Joker singing to himself.
Um, should I choose the smoothest course?
Steady as the being dropped.
Should I blow this mother fucker's head off?
Hey, man, it's a 50 50 choice.
Okay.
Oh, you're coming to flute musicians again.
Oh my gosh.
Oh my gosh.
Is flute position aware that we can't read any of that?
I don't think they care.
They're just like spam must happen now.
I mean, it'd be funny if you converted and it's like,
I'm currently streaming at stream.com slash DWXZZ.
Come watch.
And it's like an actual guy playing like Fortnite.
Well, if he's playing Fortnite, then he's pretty much a dead man.
Mm hmm.
I rounded a loop.
Did Fortnite come back after they had that blackout?
I assume so.
I don't know though.
I don't think any of us play it.
We play great games like Call of Duty.
Isn't that right, Wolf?
Hey, Call of Duty.
Well, guys, get comfy with flute musician.
Okay.
Looks like he wants to keep on coming at this, this chat.
I mean, I don't want to turn chat off, but he's obviously
using different IPs and accounts every time.
So just cozy on up with the Chinaman.
A part of that, Arthur, actually played.
Seems like the riots were going to happen with or without him.
But there was an alternative, an alternative that Sophie
was perfectly positioned to present.
An alternative that would call Joker out,
that would take a stand against his self pity.
And the self pity taxi driver and king of comedy.
And now Joker used to justify their actions.
Unfortunately, every single character in Joker
was either mean to Arthur or lying to him.
There was no one to present this alternative.
And everyone was mean or lying to him.
Anyone want to challenge that statement?
Does he not remember the midget?
Does anyone ever remember the midget?
Everyone forgets the midget.
I remember Gary.
Poor guy.
Yeah.
See, like his his thing is he wants it to be a girl.
It has to be a girl.
That's my romantic, generic romantic story.
Otherwise, he just can't his little mind can't compute the story.
Apparently, the spam is an opinion on the film.
In Chinese.
I'm guessing this is the translation I interpret the ending of.
I interpret the ending of the clown as the end of its beginning.
No one cares or understands.
The cloud is now happy at the paid and finds it interesting.
What?
I'll paste that to you guys.
Apparently, that's what it is.
The end of the club.
So flute retard is just too dumb to not spam his opinion.
Maybe it's a bad translation.
I hope that's not a bad translation.
This is another translation.
I explained the end of the cloud for the end of its beginning from scratch.
No one cares or understands.
I am happy about the pain now and I find it interesting.
What?
How did it.
I don't know what to make of that.
Good luck.
I'm happy about the pain now.
Anyway, instead of using Sophie to present the opposing viewpoint and introduce gray area into
an otherwise black and white story, Joker waste Sophie on a surface level Fight Club style twist
that was honestly pretty transparent from the beginning.
What?
Wait, what?
Did he say he killed her?
Is that what he said?
No, he's saying the joke.
No, no, he said the film wasted her.
He's talking about the actual film now and that she was wasted as a Fight Club like
reveal that was pretty obvious from the beginning.
Well, there you go.
Anyone see that coming?
So my position and I said this to my friend I watched it with,
I was like, I was willing to begin complaining about their relationship.
I was like, there's no way that I'm supposed to believe they're in this much of a committed
relationship when I've had barely any scenes of them connecting.
So I was like, so either she's not real, or this is badly written.
And then when they reveal it, I was like, Oh, okay.
All right.
I was assuming bad writing just because of the DCEU track record at that point.
I knew it immediately.
Because like, no woman's gonna fucking come to your door to your greasy ass door.
And be like, Oh, you're such a good dad.
Like what the fuck?
No, no, no, no.
Especially the way race relations were like in the 80s and shit.
A black woman's just not going to go to some greasy white dude's door and be like,
I want to fuck the shit out of you.
No, it's not going to happen.
Not back then.
At least I like how so the whole reason I ever would have guessed to that is just
because we just don't think it's realistic what they were portraying.
That's why we guessed it as opposed to it being like, I knew there was a twist coming.
Yeah, it's not like it's not some smarmy shit for me.
It's like, Oh, it was so it was so predictable now.
It's like, you know, it's in his head, you know, but it didn't it didn't take me out of the movie
at all.
No, no, I think I don't think it damages the movie at all that I had an inkling of that was the case.
I'm fine with that.
It seems like a lot of people who don't like the film will often reference the flashback
bit and the reveal and like the heavy focus on that for me.
I'm just like, I guess the film's doing pretty well then.
If that's like your big issue.
Like, we got anything else?
It's like, it doesn't mean anything.
Like, all right.
I mean, this guy's argument is that the film didn't challenge Joker enough.
And yeah, that was a little bit scary, but all right.
Twist that was honestly pretty transparent from the beginning.
Oh, and one more thing.
If you've been watching videos on this channel for a while, you're probably familiar with
this video's sponsor, Curiosities.
No, blink, blink, please.
Fucking blink.
I think that's it, right?
Because because he said he's going to talk about something personal now, right?
Is this curious deal?
It's just $2.99 a month or $19.99 for a year.
Okay.
And if you believe me, that's a bottle of cyanide and when you subscribe.
Curiositiesstream.com slash Nando, N-A-N-D-O.
You also have a subscription to something called Nebula.
Oh no, there's another thing.
Nebula is a new subscription streaming service created by a bunch of independent creators,
some of which you definitely already know, like Wendover Productions or-
I don't know who's Wendover is, but okay.
I know CGP Grey.
CGP Grey or Kutzgazart or Patrick Willems or-
I want to!
No!
Dab it, scumful circle!
We got it, bitch!
Inception!
Dab it, Willems.
Or me.
Here's how it works.
First, all of my new videos are uploaded to Nebula.
Wait, sorry, hang on.
What was this subtitle?
Me.
One small change can make a big difference.
This was not a small change, good man.
Change the whole fucking movie.
Here's how it works.
First, all of my new videos are uploaded to Nebula ad-free.
But second, we're able to work on other stuff, like for instance,
there's a collaborative project that's ongoing called Working Titles,
where a bunch of us creators have gotten together and we've each picked the television show
with a title sequence that we find interesting.
And then in the videos, we talk about why that title sequence is cool.
For instance, Polyphonic did an episode-
This sounds so lame.
What the hell is this?
You guys teamed up-
I like everyone saying ad-block now.
They teamed up to talk about why title sequences are neat, specific ones.
Okay.
On Game of Thrones.
Patrick Willems did an episode on the 90s X-Men animated series.
Jess Wright did an episode on the Batman.
Oh no, not Jess Wright.
Jess Wright's there too.
It's the fucking video essay team.
They're like retarded Avengers.
Animated series, and I'll also be producing a video for this series where I talk about
one of my favorite television shows of the last 10 years that also happens to have
one of the most exciting title sequences in the history of television.
Here's a clue about which show I'm talking about.
I know what it is.
I don't know why I started laughing.
Basically, Nebula is a sandbox where creators are free to-
Oh, this is still going.
Experiment.
We can make cool new videos and series that don't have to cater to YouTube's album.
You've got like three minutes left.
Yeah, where's the five seconds, then skip?
Well, what happened?
I missed that.
Stuff like that.
And right now, if you go to curiositystream.com slash Nando-
Don't do it, guys.
And sign up for CuriosityStream.
Guys, run.
I don't want to look-
Save yourself.
This guy is not-
I don't want to hear this guy run off like fucking sponsorship.
But not because I don't like sponsorship, it's because it's him.
Like I don't want to fucking look at you while I'm leering this shit.
You're not-
You're not tempting me.
No.
Stream.
You will also get access to Nebula for as long as you're subscribed to CuriosityStream.
And on top of that, if you go to that link and you sign up, you get 30 days for free.
It is a win, win, win, win.
What am I going to have to pay?
Is that a win?
Baywin said that this Nebula thing with all these creators is like PAF.
Yeah, that would be PAF.
PAF Assemble.
So Nebula is one of the things that's really important to me.
Here's the other one.
If you're watching this video before November 2nd, 2019, on November 2nd, 2019,
I will be participating in an Extra Life charity stream.
If you're not familiar with Extra Life,
can I hear you?
I think this is the pistol thing that he said.
So all right.
That's it.
We did it.
Two Joker takes.
That's another two down.
We've got like 17.
It's fine.
Sexual harassment.
So yeah.
What do you guys think?
Which one was the worst video?
Oh, it's always always always okay.
Well, I don't know because I've been playing a video game for this entire second video to like
numb the pain.
So I might this one might be as bad and I'm just not cognizant of it.
But movie Bob hurt more.
Yes, I agree.
Movie Bob hurt more.
Um, I think this guy got more like fucked up about Joker though.
I don't know what to say.
They're one of them or even like criticisms because they don't even provide anything.
This guy was just like, let me show you how I can fuck up this.
Let me take something that's great.
And then movie Bob was like, let me tell you why Joker sucks and then not provide
anything to back up any of his points.
Um, from what I started dying laughing at this guy's
faces.
They were fucking hilarious.
That was a blast.
Like with movie Bob, it's just like, you just sit back and listen and just call him a fat
bastard.
And
Oh man, like, I don't know.
It's just, uh, there's a lot of, you know, we can check out more as time goes on in terms
of Joker is bad takes, but he's all very good.
Uh, but a lot of people really didn't like Joker.
It was quite surprising.
And I don't know if it's partly to do with the fact that it's really successful.
So it's like, I gotta say something about this because I'm a, I'm a film connoisseur.
I know what film is about.
Like, I think that if the film flopped and nobody actually talked about it, movie Bob
wouldn't have made a second video.
You might not even made a first one.
I wonder what would have changed.
Like what we can change in movie Bob's life.
If we were to go into the past, like find baby movie Bob, like, what do we change to
prevent him from, like, what do we change?
It's a bowl of dough.
And we're like, we broke it.
Oh, he's got the same shades on.
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah.
Um, yeah.
I mean, I've got, uh, so how much time has everybody got?
Uh, I'm assuming if you've got like 20 minutes at most is kind of what I made
me for.
I'm just collecting some memes and then I will allow you guys to leave.
Yeah.
I got to open in the morning.
So don't have much time.
Unfortunately.
Oh yeah.
I got 20 minutes.
Sweet.
I love how the frags doesn't come back.
It's just gonna, I'm just gonna read super chats alone.
Like, yay, but it's okay.
Also.
Oh my goodness.
Some of these memes.
Oh, you'll, you'll have froggled by that point.
I guess I could drag him on.
I can also drag Jay on if he wants to be dragged.
You know, my stream should only be about two and a half hours.
So if you're still reading through the chats, which I'm assuming you are, I'll come back.
Well, the last time we only capped out the timer at 12 hours.
I don't know what you're talking about.
Like it'll be fine.
The fact is I'm still collecting memes.
How long have we been going for?
Five and a half hours.
I knew this was going to happen.
Have you guys noticed that some of these streams go kind of long?
No, no.
Did you notice that long men are bad?
Yes.
Everyone knows that you got told that in primary school.
Oh, I guess you guys call it.
Wait, what do you guys call primary school grade school?
Elementary school.
Oh, that.
Yeah.
Well, I think isn't primary school like across like every single year of school or.
I don't know how it works, and you're terrible, like communist country.
Yeah.
What?
Yeah, what what to you is primary school?
So years.
Well, this is the thing.
This isn't going to make sense because you guys have grades not years.
Well, it's the same thing, essentially.
I don't think it is.
Well, what is it?
Well, that wouldn't even help anyway.
If I said it goes from year one to year six, you guys would be like,
I don't know if that's grade one to grade six.
I don't know if that's how that works.
Okay.
Well, how long is a year for you in school?
Like the ones complete year?
Yes.
Okay.
So that your very first year of school, you know, you go when you're like five or six.
That to us is kindergarten and we got first grade, second grade, third grade, so on and so forth.
Kindergarten is age four over here, I think four and five.
So I think, I mean, I started kindergarten when I was four, but I think that they might
have raised it or they have some kind of weird cutoff based on your birthday.
But yeah, you go to kindergarten then.
So for that, is that year one for you?
Kindergarten and then you go to year one.
Oh, sorry.
I guess you could, it goes kindergarten reception year one, two, three, four, five,
six, but I don't know if that's entirely standardized across Britain or if that was
the school I was going to.
Okay.
So how old are you when you were in reception?
That would have been, I guess, see, from what I remember, that might have been age four,
actually.
And the year before that is three and the year after that would be five.
So you preschool.
So you went to preschool, then you went to, I guess the second year of preschool,
then you went to kindergarten.
That was year one for you.
Right?
Wait, just dude, what's yours?
He goes, you guys go before high school is what?
Middle school.
Middle school.
There's elementary school, middle school and then high school.
And then college.
Oh yeah.
So what do you call your years in high school?
How many years are you in high school?
So if yours goes elementary, then middle, then high, ours goes
primary and then there is no middle school and the rest is comprehensive school.
High school for you guys is comprehensive school for us.
How old are you when you go to comprehensive school?
I can't actually remember exactly the age, honestly.
I haven't thought about it so well.
The problem as well is I consume so much American media that I fucking
forgotten a lot about what years and what things happened.
I'm picturing four-year-old baller walking into class with his gas mask on.
Well, okay.
How many years is comprehension school?
That goes from year seven to year 11 and then two years of sixth form, I believe.
Or the sixth form.
Sixth form is like you don't have to continue, but it's like super high school years.
And then you go over to university slash college.
Is it better to go to sixth form or just go to university?
Most people try to.
Sixth form is like bonus education, I guess, but you don't have to.
I think that's the end of mandatory education.
I'm really not the person to be asking this, by the way.
I've probably got this all wrong.
Well, you keep asking questions.
I'm willing to drop it.
I'm trying to understand this.
Yeah, I'm not the person that's going to be able to help you with that.
I don't remember this.
Why does your stupid country do everything so overly complicated?
You guys took our stuff and changed it.
We did it first.
But we made it better.
We took something and improved upon it.
Yours sounds more complicated.
There's more things.
No, it's very, very simple.
Well, it's just it's just preschool, kindergarten, first grade, second grade,
third grade, fourth grade, fifth grade, sixth grade, seventh and eighth grade.
And then high school, four years of high school.
And I said, no, no, no, middle school is six.
Here we go.
Well, well, well, it depends on what middle school you go to,
because I've seen a couple that like it'll go from like grades.
Well, some elementary schools go up to grade six and then it's just seven
and eight for middle school.
That's not the one I went to.
No, I went to one where it was six, seventh and eighth.
And then you go to high school.
That was mine.
That was mine.
Yeah.
Yeah, that was that was mine, too.
I thought that's what I said.
I don't know.
I'm dashed from those fucking videos.
No, you went all the way up to six grades.
Brains have melted to a degree here, guys.
You got to.
Yeah.
I don't remember the melting.
We listened to nonsense for how many hours now?
Too many?
Four?
Five?
Probably five.
There was a lot of discussion in between.
So maybe four.
Yeah, I'm collecting memes.
I'm doing it.
Gosh, people with their meme.
Oh, my God.
I guess someone tweeted me.
You cannot be serious.
These are so cheap.
They have IKEA lamps.
They use IKEA lamps in the Batcave on Batwoman.
Oh, what?
Wait, wait, wait.
I'll show you.
I'll show you.
Hold on.
Let me let me screen cap this shit.
This is so funny.
BAM, BAM, BAM, BAM, BAM, BAM, BAM, BAM, BAM, BAM.
Best soundtrack ever.
Oh, fabulous.
I miss our Chinese guest who was sharing his opinions about movies.
I wait equally for the screen cap.
Oh, what the hell is this?
God, this fucking shit tons of bulb memes.
I can't imagine why.
Did we cover this this song?
I was watching two videos.
Yeah, I know.
We're pretty fast today, aren't we?
You might even say disappointing.
But I mean, this is how it goes.
OK, let me have a look at this.
That's amazing.
Oh, my God, you're right.
I mean, let's just I don't know, Bruce Bolt with IKEA.
What could you say?
It's just like it's just like he's got a white man or discount.
Do you think it's like when Alice's thugs wore Gucci shoes,
complained about how they're fucking broke.
Get the fuck out of here.
Yeah, did you see like six hundred dollar shoes?
They eat out of cans and takeaway, but then they also like live in a kitchen
and then you see them cooking from it in one of the episodes.
And it's like, what what are you guys doing with while they're while they're
wearing six hundred dollar Gucci shoes?
They're a confusing team.
Priorities, everyone.
The nose tint is.
Having memes drip in from Discord, Twitter,
PM's and everywhere, trying to collect them all.
The daunting task, to say the least.
Feel bad the rags might miss the memes, but what can you do?
You know, what can you do?
Not our fault, he quit.
What keen can you do?
That makes sense.
All right.
Discord has to stay off screen for a moment.
It's a play inside your head.
We're getting a lot more episodes of that, you know.
Oh, God.
Like you think it'd be over after the next episode,
like the next episode feels like a finale, like finale episode.
Yeah, but I'm guessing they'll do some kind of bait,
like Alice is dead or defeated or captured.
And then I don't think they're going to kill her.
I feel like that's unlikely, but they'll have some kind of like.
Batman comes back right at the end.
So you see like the back of him or the joker is the new jokers around.
Or a new written, you know, someone's going to be baited.
The guy did say he was riddled the answer at one point, right?
So the Riddler might show up.
Oh, God.
Not saying it's a good thing.
Just saying it's a thing.
It's going to I think the next what 14 episodes are going to be the
like worst than the first eight.
I can I'm calling it now.
Like because because what you ran out of story like it's over.
Like it looks like this this episode coming up is like it's over.
It's done.
New season.
Wow, you underestimate these writers.
Or you simply estimate them correctly.
It's it's tough to know right now.
I mean, it teases everything like Alice possibly dying.
Alice finally getting her revenge.
She's like she's all glammed up at one of fucking the wife's fucking.
Whatever it's slammed up there.
And she's it seems like she's she's finally going to get this finally
going to be some kind of conclusion.
But it seems like it seems like an end of end of season episode.
It does not feel like a mid-season episode.
Yeah, no, it'll be it'll be interesting to see what the hell they're going to try and pull off.
Like this is the.
Oh, okay.
Memes collected.
How exciting.
All right.
Can't wait.
Oh,
this is a combination of a new and old meme and to the ending
of the clown as the end of its beginning conflucious.
It's the conflucious.
What is wrong with this forehead?
There's going to be some that I'll probably repeatedly show just the
we pointed out already, but check that out as well.
You got so many fucking drawings.
Oh, you might have to click that one.
But so many renditions of Bob.
He's even got a fucking desk controller belt.
Oh, guys, not opening.
No, let me see if I can open it on my phone.
And am I not loading it?
Yeah, well, let me load it.
Damn.
Well, if you guys put on the stream, you can see it.
Oh, it's going to slow down.
I suppose.
Oh, just pull it up.
Look at it and then put it back down.
There we go.
It's not loading.
Oh, look at the stream.
It's up there.
All right.
Well, hold on.
Let me get get there to this bullshit.
Had to be tismy discord.
Come on.
Okay.
No.
And diabetes.
We trust.
Wait, would you read that in the chat?
Oh, yes.
It's floating sugar.
I mean, I just I like the drawing a lot.
It's very good.
Just another.
Like I said, we got a lot of Bob memes.
Hopefully, most of these will just show up.
I feel like someone just put his head on some kind of
hideous creature.
Just like, yep, that's a meme.
I don't even.
That's from the Star Wars animated series.
I think.
Why can't you just be normal as nothing?
That is the Babadook.
I know these references, at least some of them.
All right.
This one's a little terrifying, but still loving.
Bob in the room.
Oh, God.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
Is that like a really early picture of Bob or is that somebody else?
I'm assuming that I've seen like several memes with that face.
So I don't know if that's just a popular fat fatman face to use or what.
The fatman.
Yeah.
Admiral Holdo, like he tries to fuck the doll and she keeps giving him vague
instructions on how to fuck her.
The wrong instructions.
He's got the candy floating around him.
Yeah, people just say it is young Bob.
Oh, young Bob was really ugly.
The fucking spam dude got a meme made out of it.
The ending of the club has ended my great suffering.
Lucius.
Oh, man.
Congratulations, Chinaman.
You you became meme status by accident.
The way of the cloud is just as I.
No one understood the fusitians 12 to 13.
He speaks.
People really jumped on that.
That wasn't too long ago that we figured out that was what it was.
Wasn't it like it was like 30 minutes, maybe.
It's perfect.
They've taken his beds.
He will have them.
He'll find them, but he will have the last laugh.
I don't know.
I'd watch it just saying.
I would do.
I think we all know this meme very well.
I see a podcast.
I see you on eFap and a lot of bad joker takes.
Jesus, that's a lot of bad jokes.
Like a Jenna just said, Wolf has me googling popular fat man face.
Oh, hey, we got a plot summary for this one.
Joking Joaquin is a real joker.
One day he jokes to the wrong person.
Darth Uchi pushed away from his ability to joke by Uchi.
He will learn to reclaim his power and make jokes with his goal to make
the most offensive joke possible.
He joke, which will destroy all minorities before Uchi can and show him up.
What before she can and show him up.
He'll destroy all minorities.
All right.
So many fucking Diabeto memes that they're like pretty good for the amount of time.
Diabeto is an eFap villain, I guess.
Oh, God.
Oh, wait.
And see, then we have other examples of Diabeto that I mean still work.
I don't know why that that one he kind of looks like Jeffrey Donner.
If he put out a few hundred pounds.
Yeah, but I mean, the glasses, the stash thing.
The dark diet.
Is that is that fat woman's head?
Apparently, I'm just keeping watch of them while having my cup of tea.
You're a snake.
So speaking of Diabeto versions, holy shit.
Oh, that's a good one.
You've got some long arms and some itty bitty wittle wigs.
A theory on metatextral water farting.
Oh, no.
That bulge is magnificent.
He's quite the creature.
I wonder if he knows that a load of fat art was drawn of him today.
He'd be like, why do I why am I wearing magnetos clothes?
What's all the chocolate?
What's happening?
Bob V. Jenny, Dawn of Joker tisms.
There is so much pointless shit in Joker.
What's that other one say?
There's nothing in yoga.
Well, one of the things she said was it was too overt, right?
You could probably have the clash of that.
But yes, they would clash.
Special.
So this is an image combined with the tweet we read out.
Go ahead, blend it in with his neck.
It looks so natural.
I could believe that was actually in the film.
Hunch Bob of diabetes.
Hunch Bob.
The Efap fusions.
It's your standard sort of video game.
Chats involved.
Ra would be the the god in this, I suppose.
Standing on a roof naturally.
This one, you linked.
I didn't get it on screen.
It's like, what's happening exactly?
I can't tell if that's a little Bob coming out of his face.
I don't I'm a little confused to be perfectly honest.
What the fuck?
I don't know exactly what's happening.
It's also terrifying, yes.
Maybe it's supposed to be how he got his dimple.
I, I'm very frightened and frankly confused, but okay, I'll go with it.
God, so like when people fist me, he's quite terrifying.
I think that's fair.
Nobody's really prepared for the movie, Bob.
Yep.
I guess this one's just a very quick observation.
I think it's nice and fair.
And it'll remind you of simpler times when we were talking just several hours ago.
I any.
I any.
Take it easy with those twizzles.
Oh my god, the Mario hat one.
I guess he wanted to like cosplay Mario, because there's a lot of those photos.
All right.
Bob, why do you like this?
I don't think we want him to stop.
Roll of the movie.
Look at the droid, the droid back there.
Oh man.
As hail, but as sold by Morgan Freeman.
New tis in the adventure.
I'm not, you know what?
There's a lot to interpret with this image.
I'm not sure what we're supposed to move up.
Movie Bob wishes he was that thin.
He's downright athletic at that point.
Looking good, Bob.
Oh.
She likes being scrappy.
Well, because I'm little, so I like that.
I guess this isn't really a meme.
I got thrown in.
This was on, I don't think it was.
I think I just caught from discord.
If you like a movie, it's.
Wait, sorry.
Go look at more on YouTube.
TLJ is the worst thing ever happened to the franchise.
I like to move a goddamn subject with the worst written styles movie ever.
They've quoted and said, if you like a movie, it's good.
That's how it works.
Okay.
Mola, the guy who spent 12 hours on a live stream mocking Jenny Nicholson after she made a Joker film review.
Tell me why I should take someone like that seriously.
You don't have to.
I don't care if you take me seriously.
Watch out.
Mola's the kind of guy to name search himself so he can quote tweet tweets that make him the maddest.
What?
Uh, okay.
Who could have guessed that a guy who makes a five hour review of a 2.5 hour movie would have so much free time on his hands.
Well, this is my job.
Reviewing stuff at this point full time.
But I mean, all right.
Uh, yeah, uh, I mean, it's the same exact take.
So does this guy think he's the first person to say, oh, they box Jenny Nicholson for 12 hours.
I mean, maybe it's more accurate with movie.
Bob, especially with this next one.
I like that it's spinning into circle.
He's like set up the hoop of sugar.
Once again, magnificent bulge.
Why did you draw drawing him with a fucking ball?
How do you know that this is not just fat?
Or could be a donut hole.
We don't know what it is.
It's something that's.
Oh, so this is the character from Doctor Who I was talking about.
There's like a flap of skin, but he's deflated.
This is kind of what he would be.
Diabeto deflate.
I'm sure he's still fine.
I don't know what to make of this one.
It's terrifying in its own way.
Why does he keep making these?
Why is it like a specific guy?
Yeah, I know who it is.
So it's bigger.
Oh yeah, you still got detective.
When even Batwoman can't crack the case, there's one man that got them.
I know the beams are like absolutely good sometimes, like guys.
Oh, he's on his rascal scooter.
Little basket.
I think he's looking at like evidence.
Not nearly as fat as in real life, though.
Well, you know, it is his movie.
Maybe use some digitally defatting sort of stuff.
Oh yeah, yeah.
Digital defatation.
Like how they have de-aging, it's defatation.
Diabeto.
He's got the D is made out of half a donut and a popsicle.
I don't know.
When you say the D, I just think of something completely different.
I realize.
Oh, he's talking about the actual.
I think I'm not sure what this is originally, but
damn titties, though.
Yeah, you know, you got four of them.
Double decker titties.
And now for something completely different.
Pikachu made an animated rags.
I will have to save this one for when rags returns.
But oh, it's adorable.
Oh, I guess Catastropica.
I don't know if that's the same person as Pikachu, actually.
I might be wrong.
I'm assuming it is, though.
Digital D slimming actually exists, by the way.
According to chat, digital slimming actually exists.
I can believe.
Well, I don't know.
He looks so happy, though.
Detective, I have hawks on the case.
All he needs is his hat.
Complete.
I think these were the from the old references.
Oh, no, I guess I love the idea of an all becomes a movie review.
Seriously, so much so much passion in these these diabetes.
You will be defeated by me.
Diabetes.
I think he's floating all the fat people in the background.
Come with me.
You made it work mostly.
What is more effort into that song that he put into his video, so it's all good.
Oh, I kind of bobbinator.
Discord work.
That's great.
That green screen one has just been put.
Robert.
Oh, this is Bob has to go get has to go get those down those fucking stairs.
He's got the scooter.
I just picture him driving down the stairs.
He just falls and he starts bouncing down the stairs like a basketball.
Oh, I like it was not even the beer hat.
They've just sellotape the fucking cans.
The can do spirit right there.
This is what a feminist looks like.
Oh, my God.
He's on the case.
Guys, right.
Hey, we'll stop right there.
This computer is surprisingly fast.
Silence log bad.
You would certainly get me.
Back when rags discussing which one you'd like to bone.
Oh, yes.
See, he is black with red stuff in it.
Not red with black stuff in it.
All right.
One of those infinite sort of questions that faces man.
Is this presenting him as like the villain?
I'm not sure.
Oh, I know this reference is from Wolverine origins.
I think I think.
Oh, yeah.
It's the blob.
You just call me Bob.
You get upset because you call him Bob.
It's movie Bob.
Well, you got normal humans as labels.
He's anything but.
The 3D artist, technically.
Detective Diabido Hamahawk on the case.
Guy wrote a blood movie.
Bob did it.
What is he even writing there?
It's a sled with a stick or something.
I like that he's got the colors for Magneto, though.
It looks like a sleigh, but with like cheese curds for.
Maybe the the best dude died was his like the person who pulled it.
The just dealer is cheese dealer.
She's the rarest of Jesus.
Marsha the movie.
It's another perfect neck blend.
I wonder if that hurts his neck.
I think so.
Go on.
Gooby Jew.
Bob when he's the unknown soul.
I need to see my own Diabido.
Oh, yeah, I could see a team up.
Oh, another fantastic quote from movie, Bob.
I assume this has nothing to do with this actual stream
outside of the fact that it's movie Bob.
But there's no such thing as a bad tactic.
Only bad targets.
Kind of makes use of, you know, thank goodness he has.
It doesn't make any sense.
Are you telling me there's no such thing as a bad tactic?
Only bad targets.
Well, what if targeting one person over targeting 50 people is the choice?
That would be a bad target and a bad tactic.
I respond to that with a drawing.
I can hear the picture.
I'm going to have to go, but I will come back when my stream is over.
Because I'm assuming you're still going to be reading Super Chat.
I think it's almost a guarantee.
It is.
If I don't see it.
He only has one leg in that picture.
It was nice meeting you, Jay Wolf.
It was nice streaming with you.
It was nice talking with you.
Um, do you want to just plug your, uh, your channel?
And I guess your, your stream as it's about to happen, um, for the people in chat.
So guys, uh, I'm going to be doing my weekly show called the Jack show.
It rotates between channels.
Uh, me, John Maylon, Cecil, and Kelsey.
And this week it's my week and I'm already two minutes late for it.
So, but yeah, so kind of late to my own party right now.
But, uh, my, my channel's called that Star Wars girl.
I talk about Star Wars surprise.
And, uh, superheroes and other like stuff in pop culture.
So yeah, that's what I do.
That's what I talk about.
Uh, yeah.
I don't think I have anything else to say, but, uh, oh, I do art videos too.
So there, there's a surprise thing.
There you go.
Got to hook them in with something crazy good art too.
So buy it.
Oh, thank you.
Thank you.
Well, uh, I will be back.
Uh, I am all, I'm assuming you will be here.
It's a guarantee.
So I will talk to you later and, uh, to you others.
Uh, hi.
Yeah.
Thanks for having on later.
All right.
I just noticed that the diabetes has a big leg.
Yeah.
I was just trying to point out about that picture.
It's funny.
God is like chopped off diabetes.
They still got, they got, they got the cats attached to him as well.
So you could drink.
You know what that reminds me of is like the people on my 600 pound life who have
like legs that are rotting off because they're like way too big for them.
If you've ever wanted to like have really good motivation to not get overweight,
just watch clips of that on YouTube.
It's really good motivator to work out.
Actually.
Yeah.
I feel like these memes have been pretty good motivation.
Finally finished the script for episode nine.
Mr. Mouse can't just recycle an older styles movie again.
Do it over.
He just looks at Harry Potter, the Goblet of fire.
I don't even like, I don't understand what the reference.
Yeah.
I think I might be missing something.
Maybe, maybe the joke is like, he just can't do anything original.
Has to fall off something.
You'll rip off.
That's what he's been.
I could see it.
JJ has no limits.
This is what feminist looks like.
Yeah.
Such an embarrassing photo.
That's a movie.
Bob still.
I think that face does kind of match up because he's got like the dimples on us
pronounced, but they're still there.
Like I could believe this is him 10 years ago, you know.
He might actually be not as fat now because those are those are some.
Titanic cities.
Yeah.
Um, I also kind of want to point out that it says the following picture
includes major spoilers for hell.
Yeah.
That's really good.
He just.
Oh man.
I can't remember if we looked at this one or not yet, but this, you know,
you have all kinds of different things that.
It sounds more like a command to that point.
So do you like that they photoshopped the belly?
Like they've just expanded it out.
Oh, thank God.
I still hope he's not.
That color looks tight after yourself.
They're bothered.
This is some pixel art for Bob looking good.
Confident.
Oh my God.
So this is the X two seed, I guess too much sugar in your blood.
He's like tearing the skin off.
Again, I mean, you know, these movie ideas, you should pursue them.
This is the, I was hacked alien from ages ago, but I guess with a ball of skin on it,
I just, I like it.
It's cool.
It's what happens when people think this is me.
That's what the aliens look like.
And so if I'm an alien, this is what I would look like.
I should be like, I'm not an alien.
Because talking about it, it's good stuff.
Hello.
Oh, this is a Mandalorian meme.
Go to stupid rock thing for you.
Gio Gio.
They're all eating the G.
Jesus.
Can somebody kick Jay?
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's what rags would want at that point, I think.
Oh, I think this makes a lot of sense.
And episode nine rolls around.
There's only one thing that'll happen.
Fucking everyone will have courage on it.
You know, it would be a better meme if it was that meme with the, the black,
the, the black, the ball, the black guys on the white chick, the orgy meme.
All right.
Oh, no.
Maybe it could be applicable.
My diabetic rage.
Oh, my.
Well, this is about you, I guess.
I fear no man.
Oh, what?
I can't read all of it, but that thing, it scares me.
Oh, that's a good one.
When I was trying to get OBS to fucking behave, it's like confused screaming.
Confused screaming.
Oh, these are so good.
Logic facts.
Just a good old fashioned meme at that point.
Oh, boy, what's this one?
Hey, so remember when we were watching that just right video and it got all the
tism.
Well, I must have reached out because I woke up and my channel was gone.
Then Mahler was like, it's been three months.
Come on.
We're covering Jenny Nicholson.
This is okay.
Stop it.
Absolutely a summary of accuracy to the events.
What have you said?
This one was just sent to me, so I don't know if you got it, but I love it.
Movie blob in his natural environment.
Oh, fuck.
There we go.
Hang on.
There you go.
I feel like he would he would feel powerful in there.
Yes, this is natural environment sort of thing.
Again, so many visions of Diabeto.
This is great.
He's stronger than you'd think.
Don't yeah, don't underestimate Diabeto, guys.
All right.
I see you in chat.
They're thinking about it.
This is.
Oh.
The blob.
Wait, that is the blob, right?
Oh, I think so.
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Spiders predicted.
Movie Bob, he is calm.
Oh, no.
Why didn't the spiders tell us?
I think the spiders wanted this to happen.
They don't usually tell us when it's stuff they want us to experience.
Spiders betrayed us.
I don't know.
Maybe it was for our for our best interest.
We knew that you can't stop me.
Detective Ham Hawk.
My blood sugar levels is beyond your understanding.
He's got his little crab.
Oh, boy.
He's like wearing a diaper, I think.
Oh, I think this is the translation of the Chinese lettering.
I explained the end of the clown or the end of its beginning from scratch.
No one cares or understands clown.
I am happy about the pain now, and I found it interesting.
I shall the ending of the clown is explained as the end of its beginning from the beginning.
No one care.
Understanding the clown is now happy with the pain and found that it's interesting.
I explained the ending of the clown is starting.
I think it's repeating.
I'm not sure, but I think you get the gist.
Yeah, nailed it.
Oh, well, here's a here's one that just came in pretty relevant right now.
Oh, give me a sec.
Color orange breeds.
Raggers description.
Lost rags.
Last seen on E561.
If found, please return to mauler.
He'll be back.
I am actually curious at this point what pulled him out for fucking,
what is this, four hours now?
Three hours?
I hope you're okay rags.
I mean, he missed the entire second video, so.
Did he?
Yeah, yeah.
Maybe he's dead.
Maybe that's just your opinion.
All right, now we got just a couple of older memes and then we'll be moving right along.
This is obviously the new template we're going for with Efap because
we're a very leftist podcast as according to knobs.
Hope you guys like it.
I like that they didn't even bother to just like
magic tool out the magic one tool out the white around it.
That's so fucking disturbing.
Oh my.
Jeb, Jeb Biggs.
No, no, no, no, no.
Oh, you're right.
It has been like just about two and a half hours.
God, I ironically hated.
It's not about the themes about good stories and characters.
Everything is.
Yeah.
Shitty, but he was.
This one's like a whole story.
All right, we got now our podcast small, but there's a lot of potential for aggressive
expansion.
So which one of you gentlemen would like to team join our little team?
Oh, and there's only one spot for our newly open spot right now.
So oh, it's between Fringy and Jay.
Apparently even chat has got a gun on them.
We're going to have tryouts.
Oh, and his robot has make it long.
Because they say make it quick.
I love it.
Memes ahoy.
Oh, shit.
We got a description of the plot for Sal's episode nine to age of Otschi.
The universe is in anarchy after C-3PO says the n-word before Finn can grant him a pass.
The shockwave of the power released spawns a new foe named Otschi.
Uh, being so powerful, he can say any slur he wants whenever he wants to whoever he wants.
It will take the team team up of a black person, Lando, and a Jew, Kylo, and a woman to stop this
new threat before he can become the CEO of racism.
I love that a woman is just really nebulous.
They don't even specify which one just anyone will do.
It's not one of Jeb's new movies, old Jeb on the massive front.
Artificial gut of shooting.
Oh, wow.
Jenny's in this one.
So it's Quinton.
One of them big get together movies.
I guess this is me as Lincoln or Tommy Lee Jones.
Abraham Lincoln has asked us to work with him to accomplish the death of slavery.
Thaddeus Stevens.
I I'm not a hundred percent on that one.
I yeah, I don't I don't know.
Man of Polst.
Man of Polst.
That that actually kind of looks almost convincing.
Yeah, like I could believe it until I look closer.
I want to see this.
This it'll probably be more entertaining than the actual Man of Steel movie.
Oh, oh, hey, look, one of the deleted screenshots
that come out about the new Star Wars.
That's pretty cool.
We're fast.
You like this one.
Detroit become Jeb.
It's just his face.
Oh, yeah, I guess C-3PO deciphers the dagger and it says Ray is a Mary Sue.
Even got an E.R. reference in there.
Oh, offensive.
I know there's like three different versions of the last Jeb.
Well, this is last Jedi.
It looks it looks flawless.
Like the Jedi is completely it looks great.
And then Jeb's face looks perfectly photoshopped in there.
They even got the red on there in the blue with the lightsabers.
I could I could see this.
I could see it.
I could I could see this.
I could see his name was Jeb Skywalker all along.
It wasn't Luke.
Mark Hamill was wrong.
It wasn't Jake.
It wasn't Jake.
It was Jeb.
Uh, bring this down a bit.
You got this from the new Rick and Morty episode or the first one.
I don't care about the timeline like creators of Terminator Dark Fate.
Find themes.
Find Joker theme.
Jenny video retarded obsession.
Jenny Twitter drama.
Jenny twatter followers.
He found his sexist toxic red pill retarded don't watch 12 hours.
Jeb egg.
It grows in her brain.
Beams are born.
Oh my goodness.
Well, it's an interesting interpretation of events.
But, uh, relatively accurate.
Also terrifying.
Also by Wolf, I guess.
God.
Some fucking insults did an 11 hour video about Kyla watching Ray shitting.
They're raging.
It is true.
This was done.
Oh God, we lost another one.
Um, well, I'm just going to keep going.
In a gentle way, you can shake the world.
Mahatma Gandhi.
Please clap.
Jeb debates are gay.
No bullshit.
Yeah, debates are gay.
Yeah, I actually saw that part of the stream.
Oh, did you?
Yeah, I didn't see the whole one.
I stopped in on that.
Well, no, you know, no, I think it was done and I were wound to that part.
I had to stop because I had to do something else.
I saw it.
Like you said, did he has like the douchey voice you expect him to have?
Yeah, debates are gay.
Oh, bro, dude, bro.
Debates are gay, dude.
Debates are gay.
That's like, it's a good quote.
It's like a shitty Harry Potter name.
Harry Potter and the quiz.
What?
Can't say it sounds that interesting, but maybe.
Oh, hey.
So this is a reference to the new battle episode.
The Italian chef.
You're having the big day.
Get the fuck out.
Oh, shit.
Oh, it's a nice little drawing of Ron his rooftop.
Looks like he's sailing on it.
You're working, Joe.
Looking massive.
We'll learn to fear my fucking rooftop.
It makes sense.
In law, he's a person who throws people off roofs.
Don't worry about it.
It's relatively complex to keep track.
So Rags accidentally called angry Joe angry Jew once.
Angry Jew versus the dynamic Hispanic.
A lot of jabs.
Jam is in the background.
Apparently, this is like a real ass post.
So they just put jab on it.
Oh, what the hell happened?
Oh, delightfully.
Delightful lazy.
Because that's what he that was his thing, right?
He wrote his slogan or whatever.
Just a jab.
Yeah.
Jab.
Jab is a NeFap fan.
Oh, absolutely.
I see a chick in the background laughing at him.
Hang on.
Jeb supports us even in his rallies.
Good old Jeb.
Jeb brought wolf back praise.
But yeah, it was the spiders for seeing exactly what was going to happen
with the Jen Jeb nickel stream.
And you know what?
You know, they didn't stop it from happening.
It's just how it works.
Oh, yeah, we became big fans of Darth Uchi toward the end.
And so this is get well, Uchi.
We love Uchi.
McMuffins.
What's the what's the story behind the McMuffins?
I don't know.
I don't know the lore.
So in the film, there's a lot of MacGuffins and death bullshit
when trying to read out some stuff, mention one of them.
And then he said another another fucking McMuffin.
It's because he was hungry.
Rags, you drunk.
Oh, yeah, three beers.
Three is enough for rags.
Adorable little doggo gets super drunk, super fast.
Oh, wait, did we show this one already?
I can't remember, but I find it hilarious.
Rags is clearly a right wing racist.
It's like, no, he's obviously a gay leftist.
Retard.
Retard.
So many movies we have to go see according to these memes.
Look at this McMuffin.
Hey, these are top quality memes.
Okay.
She went to the McMuffin planet.
Jebs.
They have come despite a predict soul.
I think you might have shown that one already.
No, the other one had a movie Bob.
I think it's a template.
Okay.
Oh, I got you.
Movies don't need logic consistency.
Me online.
I can't.
What does that do for Ben 10?
The watch?
Does it?
Oh, you tap the watch and become whatever monster you selected.
So they're turning into you.
I wish I didn't know that.
That's a really bad show that I thought was good when I was a kid.
Oh, this is just a photo of obviously a school where they teach eFap probably,
and they put in jab the bush.
Someone actually did this.
I almost got twitch.tv slash.
What is that?
Thorda breekey.
Thordmas.
I don't know, but follow slash tune in.
I can't even read what the link is, but okay.
This is fucking great.
I love it.
This is taking my look at my friends.
That's priceless.
Oh my God.
Look at my friends.
Literally forgot your names.
Not you niggas, of course.
Oh, wow.
Check this out.
One of them horror movies I hear so much about.
He doesn't look pleased.
No, he's unhappy.
Yeah, not the greatest living situation for him.
See, and that's, you know, you have that direct comparison where he's much happier here.
I thought that was the name of the movie.
So I looked down.
Bush.
Oh, it looks almost good enough to be convincing.
What a very nice terminator.
So this is going to confuse the shit out of Jay Longbone.
It'll be great.
The long men were created by tonal gloke after the final battle between the cosmic chicken and Goliath.
The long men are fascinating creatures.
Their height can go up to 15 feet.
The longest long men grew to be 20 feet tall.
Most long men live to be 50 million years old.
The oldest long men live to 1.2 billion years old.
The long men do not need to eat, sleep or drink.
They live off objectivity, long discussions and critiques.
They have incredible speed.
It is said they can run around the entire world in five seconds.
It is objectively impossible to record their exact speed.
The long men have extreme elasticity.
They can stretch their arms to great lengths,
which would make them very dangerous as an opponent as an opponent.
The first sighting was from an explorer by the name Patrick Williams of in 4000 BC.
During his quest to find the mystical plot hole,
Williams wrote in a letter, I saw this creature that looked like a giant skull on wheels.
He later writes that it was too quick for him to get a better look.
Bigidius added in his teachings that the long man must hide his face
because eye contact and turn a man into atoms.
There is no further information on this creature because they were said to have been wiped out by
Quintinius the immortal during the great tism of 2050 BC.
There was only one survivor.
This document must never be discovered by Quintinius.
I have hidden my identity for my safety.
Oh, I was translated by Scooby Doobius.
This is another one from the 3D drawings.
Just log bad bad.
I'm like cycling around through portals on this molten island.
I'm assuming this is Twitter.
Like how I don't know how else you would depict Twitter, to be honest with you.
But if you click this or it should just play it, that's like a video version.
And I like that it just has Epstein.
Epstein didn't kill himself in the background.
Oh, it's beautiful.
And yeah, that does it for the memes.
I know there's going to be more, but they're all the ones that I collected.
And I know there's probably a lot of people out there right now.
Like, what about my name?
It's like, I swear to God trying to get them all collected up.
I do.
I think there's two more I've got in my little backlog there.
Give me a sec.
I will grab those.
Oop.
All right.
That should do it.
Okay.
Also, I should say, since apparently some people were mad about what I said about Ben 10.
I haven't watched it in.
Since the whatever, I stopped watching when they were like teenagers and look dumb to me.
So whenever that was, all I remember is that I well, actually, no, I barely remember the show
other than like Cthulhu's like the main villain or something, Space Cthulhu.
I just remember the show being silly.
I don't have any objective reasoning behind it.
I just assume it's bad retrospect, but whatever if it's good, I don't I don't remember.
I haven't watched it in forever.
So there we go.
I didn't realize they're Ben 10 fans.
I love how I'm just like, like a dark like peanut with purple hair.
I mean, at least you're riding rags.
Not bad.
Riding rags.
Yeah.
I like movie Bob there as well.
Looking fine.
And then we've got a so the vision where everything is slightly different.
Got it's all her fault.
Everything is slightly different.
Got it's all her fault.
How do you draw this in such short amount of time?
This is awesome.
I don't know.
I don't know how you either of them do any of this.
It's all her fault.
Oh, my God.
Someone, please.
Someone, please make one of him shaking the shit out of her.
You say, why did you fuck me up for like that?
Why did you do this to me?
It's like the idea that he's like, this is a great change.
It's like everybody would hate it.
She ruined everything.
Space Cthulhu.
This is why I hate Wolf.
I only remember there being a person who had like tentacles on their face or something.
This is again pulling from what's probably like 10 years ago.
You can't remember specifically what it was the fuck.
I don't remember what even the well, I know the main character's name.
I don't remember anyone else's name.
There was like an old dude, I think.
See, this is why I have doesn't even remember character names.
What a piece of shit.
We have to save yourself, Wolf.
I don't know.
I didn't realize that there was a large following of Ben 10.
I haven't thought of it since I was a kid.
Well, I was actually going to say I'm going to move on over into reading super chats now.
I don't want to keep anyone longer than they were having to with all of the video coverage
and the memes.
And I know some people are running out of time.
So would anyone like to eject at this very moment?
Yeah, I think I'm going to have to.
I got a lot of stuff to prepare to leave town Saturday.
But you must plug your channel.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah, my channel.
Oh, yeah, I guess I should do that.
Yeah, Jay Longbone.
I make movie reviews and trailer reactions and funny edits and such.
Right now I'm doing I'm fucking reacting to Batwoman.
I was kind of what thankfully they're on hiatus.
So I can do other shit now and I can react to other shit.
So but yeah, right now I'm just that's the thing.
That's the Batwoman.
That bullshit.
I'm doing that.
So expect more of that in December.
But yeah, that's my channel.
Well, there you go.
I was going to say it should be pretty easy to to hit subscribe there in terms of just
check out the reactions to Batwoman because I'm assuming you guys in chat have actually
watched the Efap once you'll have an easy in there.
It's fun getting multiple perspectives on such terrible content.
And yes, at least you won't be alone.
Yeah, it's not really my perspective and they're really that much different.
Like it's just a little easier on one episode than you.
That's about it.
And I still I still think like when you said about it, like I completely agree.
I'm just like, for me, I wasn't reacting to it like I should.
Like I should have when I was watching it.
So I was like, fuck it.
I mean, I don't think anyone's going to deny it.
Like what we were discussing is like one of the worst episodes is still the fucking elevator
one where he's like his whole plan is to capture people in elevators in the hopes of Batman will
attack him on the rooftops that he can kill him with a batman killing gun.
It's the most like what the fuck is happening?
So retarded.
But still excellent TV.
And yeah, you can check out a coverage of it.
It's all there.
Seven episodes worth.
And yeah, we'll we still got an eFap movies to record with you in the future.
So expect fun.
Oh, yes.
Most definitely.
Yeah.
Thanks for coming on.
Appreciate it.
I hope you've been entertained by movie Bob and Nando.
Oh, yeah.
Yes, immensely.
Thanks for having me on.
You guys are great.
Oh, yeah.
Um, I just hope you had fun instead of dying.
That's all.
Yeah.
Thank God for that second video that actually got brought me back.
I was getting ready to kill something with movie Bob.
Yeah.
Oh, well, I'm not the only one.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I like the little a little asterisk at the end.
Like, oh, yeah, we'll screw too.
Well, yeah, I am.
I'm going to go.
Bye.
Yeah.
Bye.
Would you say wait?
No.
Oh, okay.
For a second after you were like, no, don't go.
It's okay.
Also, how come I posted the thing and then it said message retracted on the thing.
Who can retract my messages in my chat?
Who has the authority to do such things?
Maybe it counts as spam or something.
I don't know.
But yes, link is in the description as well.
But Wolf, would you like to exit as well?
Yes, I have to work in the morning.
Would you like to?
I can't stay.
Oh, you're you're some reason I'm retarded.
I didn't put your channel in the description.
But you can still plug it.
Go right ahead.
I will link it.
I make a channel.
The things that you shouldn't watch.
I working on a review of Jedi fallen order.
Although I playing it through a second time and then I'll probably play it through a third time
before I actually get the review up.
Although this time is going a lot faster than the first time.
So that might not be as long as I thought.
Yeah, I'm doing that.
And then rise of Skywalker and then I quit Star Wars forever.
And yeah.
Yeah.
I could have sworn you said in your video that you were never going to watch Star Wars
movie again.
Then you watched Solo and you watch an episode nine.
Well, if you're a you're a dirty liar and hopefully you'll keep making videos.
Well, I have I have I had like morbid curiosity to see how badly they would destroy everything.
But now it's like you have an episode 10 made by Ryan Johnson.
When you have morbid curiosity for that.
No, no, no, no, no.
I'm never giving Ryan Johnson a penny of my money ever.
Not even if you do the thing where you buy a different movie and then go to see it.
No, I don't want to give him my time either.
No, fair enough.
Well, and Johnson lost all goodwill that I didn't have in the first place.
But I will I mean, well, I had neutral will because I didn't know anything about him when
I went into the last Jedi.
The only thing I knew about him is that my friend liked Looper.
And I was like, well, that's that's a thing.
Might be good.
And then then the last Jedi happened.
And now I hate Ryan Johnson.
So no, no, never, never doing the thing.
Well, I mean, at least I look forward to.
Dragon weight.
So what's what's the next thing that's going to get done then?
Because you only got less than a month.
I'm really going to try.
Yeah, and I got to I'm going to be on vacation the week before Christmas.
So I won't be here for the Rise of Skywalker stream.
And I hope to get the Jedi Fallen Order review out before I go on vacation,
because I won't be able to edit it while I'm out.
But yeah, so hopefully in mid December at the absolute latest.
But then again, you never know with me.
So yeah, I shall leave.
Goodbye, sir.
Have a good everything.
Yeah, that that probably won't happen.
But yeah, have a good some things.
Sure.
And that leaves me and Rags.
Rags, how you doing?
I thought that like you've you've you've been a little bit quiet this stream.
I know you don't like movie ball, but that doesn't mean.
Okay.
Oh, fine.
Rags, you know, he's just he's clearly just having a bad night tonight.
So we're going to have to try and see if we can find some other avenue in which
for me to grab a soul in compornium, also known as company.
I mean, he sent me a message.
Okay.
So I'm assuming it's okay.
We got a lot to get through.
I feel like I'm probably going to be capping out the 12 hour thing again.
But hey, really, we've already made it that far, huh?
Has Rags gone to sleep?
I feel like he has.
I mean, it's been like, what, two hours now?
I don't know.
I hope he's okay.
All right.
He is too.
We hit on the street.
This one I had to skip out on.
It said Madlib time.
Efap, give me an ad vib adjective, noun adjective, noun ad vib.
So I remember that I was there.
We're going to make it Efap related, right?
That's the idea, I think.
Okay, so we're going to use Tism once, but Tism applies to all of those.
Yeah.
If we've got, we've got how many nouns?
We'll have massive for one of the nouns, I guess.
So wait, what's first?
It's the nouns first.
Well, we got three nouns.
We'll use, we'll use up them.
This is going to be taken very seriously.
Okay.
This is incredibly serious.
Okay.
You add so a noun is first, right?
Well, yeah, I was going to say we'll do, yeah, there's two adjectives.
So two adjectives, two nouns, and sorry, three nouns, two adverbs, two adjectives.
There we go.
Interesting.
Okay.
Okay.
Right.
So a massive is, wait, maybe I'm, maybe I'm retarded on this as well.
Let me check what adjective is.
A weird naming is a descriptive word.
So massive is, it totally works.
Right.
Yeah.
Cause you wouldn't, I'm continuing what an adverb is though.
Now a noun is a person, place, or thing.
Well, this is, see, this is the thing.
A noun is like a class of people, place, or thing.
And it's like a massive is a class of person.
What is now?
We can only use it once.
All right.
That'll be the rule.
So okay.
I will use, I say massive is fine in the adjective.
All right.
Fine.
We'll have massive in the adjective.
What about tism?
Maybe noun.
Tism is, um, well, shit.
It could be both.
Couldn't it?
A tism could be a person, right?
It would be tismy if it was an adverb, right?
I, I think so.
Tis adverb is what, what's adverb again.
I'm kind of blanking on that one.
A word or phrase that modifies or qualifies an adjective.
So like, got it.
They are a tismy massive.
Yeah.
I think that works.
Okay.
Also, people are irritated with my avatar.
I'm not going to change it.
Sorry.
They liked the other one because it's from fan art.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's no excuse.
Batsplaining.
What would that be?
Batsplaining.
That would probably be an adverb.
Wouldn't that be batsplainy?
Um, maybe.
Maybe batsplaining would be an adjective.
Well, batsplaining would be massive.
No.
No, it's got to be.
Well, batsplaining has got to be just a regular verb.
Right.
Okay.
We don't have any of them, unfortunately.
Okay.
No verbs.
Okay.
What are the nouns of efap?
Um.
Jeb.
Jeb is a person.
Yeah, that works.
Don't count.
Um, diabeto is definitely going to be there now.
Diabeto.
We've got a diabeto now.
And he sees strong presence here.
Yep.
And I guess the don.
The don.
Perfect.
Perfect.
What about locations?
Do we got any locations here?
Well, the way it works is it goes adverb, adjective, noun, adjective, noun, noun, adverb.
Yeah.
So did we just use all of our persons?
We've lost all our nouns.
We've got one adverb and one adjective left.
We just went persons the whole week.
We went persons whole week.
Oh, you're saying like we could have proper names.
Like proper location names.
Yeah.
Because I'm, because I'm sitting here wondering, like, what kind of,
like, you know, efap memes do we have that are in terms of nouns, like places?
What locations are in our lore chat?
That's what I'm wondering.
Yeah.
Biggittias would be another person.
I don't think Wales counts as an efap meme.
The opinion hold.
That's true.
Oh, basement apartment.
But I don't know if we're getting too weird.
Basement apartment.
It's a long story.
Okay.
Singapore.
Isle of Man flag is a thing.
Yes, Singapore.
Absolutely.
Let's do Singapore.
Right.
Singapore, Diabeto, and Jeb.
They'll be our three nouns.
So I didn't want to go three people.
Sam.
So another adverb.
We've got tisme.
Trying to think of one of the, the Philippines would have been one as well.
The Philippines.
We're probably going to have to rely on chat for this one
because I'm going to be running blank on everything I asked my head to look for.
Yeah.
A lot of them were really loving the Isle of Man flag right now in terms of things.
Oh, I know.
I don't know if Isle of Man is three words.
I don't know if it'll screw up his thing or not.
I'm assuming it wouldn't, but I don't know.
I like Singapore.
No, it shouldn't because if it's a person plays a thing,
it doesn't have to specifically.
Should we swap it to Isle of Man?
I mean, chat seems very keen.
Let's take one of our.
Yeah, let's play.
Take one of our persons and replace it with the Isle of Man flag.
Well, then we'd have you have to lose Jeb or Diabeto.
I'm a fan of both of those.
Um, let's let's leave Diabeto because he's a newcomer
and he kind of needs to make a splash.
You know what I mean?
Did you see the memes?
Sure.
There was lots of you want to pick Singapore over Diabeto.
No, we got right now we've got Diabeto Singapore and the Isle of Man flag, right?
And you well, I'm just going to stick with Jeb Diabeto and Isle of Man.
I'm sure it'll work.
You'll be fine.
That's what really we're not this Singapore.
Okay.
Well, I mean, it only keeps our podcast to go.
And I'm just saying, I mean, we're not even using it right now.
Okay, we are.
Shut up.
I think we set that before the stream side.
Okay.
Um, celestially, celestial,
tismy, what do you count as an adverb?
If so you like a tismy massive, a celestial massive,
it would still be an adverb at that point.
Right.
Celestial.
I think that's adjective at that point.
These rules are complicated.
Okay.
Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
Celestial is actually defined as an adjective.
All right.
We'll just put it in there.
That works.
Okay.
Which means we got one adverb left.
Vigorously.
I mean, what's that got to do with eFap?
I don't know.
It's the first thing that came to my mind.
Oh, objective.
Oh, wow.
All right.
Person who sent that super chat.
I think you were Southwood Fawn.
Our choices for the nouns are Jeb, Diabeto, and Isle of Man.
Our two adverbs are tismy and objectively,
and our two adjectives are massive and celestial.
We did it.
And now I'm going to continue.
So first, we got to get all the ones that were missed last time.
That is what I'm now going to begin.
I'm going to be here for a long time.
Much like Jar Jar was in episodes two and three,
much, much less after Phantom Menace.
Rose will show up much less after TLJ,
or she'll be written better.
I think I read that one out, but still.
Yeah, she's going to be in the next episode a hell of a lot less,
but she was never in the first one.
So it's kind of like Jar Jar, kind of not, though.
Rose Tico compared to Jar Jar?
Well, Jar Jar is the much superior character.
I think we can all agree on that.
Yeah, at least people liked Jar Jar at first, you know.
Yeah, nobody ever liked Rose.
That never happened.
No.
Anyone said they did.
They were probably lions.
Fine.
I mean, I'll admit when I was a kid, I liked Jar Jar.
When I was a kid.
I fell asleep during stream.
Woke up an hour before alarm, exactly at my super chat.
Perfect timing, Mauler.
Also Rags.
I'm from the Netherlands, so negative alt here.
Negative alt here.
Huh.
Is he talking temperature?
I can't remember what that might be referencing.
Rags, what do you think?
That's what sucks about carrying him over, right?
Yeah, Rags, what's your input?
He's been really passive-aggressive today.
He just keeps ignoring me.
Yeah, he's been in the mood.
What's going on, Rags?
Come on, man.
You're being a mean.
Yo, hold on.
What the fuck is, hold on.
What the hell is this?
What?
No, somebody's spamming.
Hang on a minute.
Oh, wow.
That's like multiple accounts too.
Yeah.
What is YouTube's recommended way of getting rid of that outside of,
I guess I would have to get a specific,
I could ban specific words, can't I?
I think, well.
I'm pretty sure I can do that.
We've been hacked.
I don't think that would solve anything.
It would just make chat a little longer.
Well, it means that they can't actually post anything that connects with,
so for example, if I put streaming live now as a banned word,
I'm pretty sure that'll work.
Give me a moment, chat, don't panic.
Let's have a look.
Immunity.
Did I accidentally, hang on.
I accidentally did somebody else.
Okay.
There you go.
Yeah.
Holding alt.
There we go.
That's how you really get the job done.
All right.
Now I've just saved that.
Let's see how long he lasts.
Hopefully it stops, but it might not.
Could be wrong.
Nope.
It seems to have stopped right in its goddamn tracks.
Bye-bye.
Right in its tracks.
Look at that shit.
Hey, at least that works.
All right.
So it looks like Jenna's still here doing the stuff.
Good shit.
Good job.
Careful chat.
Don't ever say, I typed it in wrong.
I said, streaming live now.
Dreaming live.
Apparently that worked.
But yeah, don't say streaming live now,
or you might get hit with a block or ban or something.
I figure there's no reason anyone would need to say streaming live now.
But we shall see.
I can...
So what usually happens with this is I can unban that word then or set later.
Like at the end?
Yeah.
We should be fine.
And thank you, mods, for looking out for the welfare of the chat.
I know they get very antsy when there's spam.
All right.
Jenna, bye-okenship.
High rags.
He would say high back, for sure.
It's always great to watch eFap before work,
and it's even better to see it going strong when I get out of work.
Oh well.
Yeah, you got an extra one this week too.
Yeah.
Oh my fucking god, you're still going.
We're reading this one when we've got like a thousand left.
Now you think this is going to take six hours?
You think so?
I mean, we had less last time that I didn't finish, and it took us five and a half hours.
So that's where we're at.
Though if rags isn't here, there's a good chance we won't go on as many tangents.
There's a good chance.
Though if something piques me and you as interest, we still will call on tangents.
I just love the idea that Anna's gone to do her stream.
And by the time she leaves when we start to do super chats,
and she'll be finished, and she'll be back.
Well, we're not even halfway, probably.
But it's fine.
Hashtag Rise of Skywalker endings on Twitter.
Make your own.
Got it trending.
Absolutely love you guys.
Keep up the great content.
I would just type the leaked one and be like, this is my joke ending.
Just be like, wow, that's really stupid.
This would be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you think.
Please, Efap the Ringer binge mode in upcoming Last Jedi podcast.
Mallory Rubin says Attack of the Clones is objectively bad, but ranks TLJ
number one Star Wars film.
Plus, we get to listen to women.
Also, Shalom rags.
Shalom.
Attack of the Clones is objectively bad, but TLJ is number one?
Okay.
There was like a lot going on in that one.
I was a little confused on what to even respond to.
Well, they want us to check out a podcast where Mallory Rubin says
Attack of the Clones is objectively bad, but TLJ is number one.
And I mean, if that's all they say, there's not much for us to, you know,
respond to there.
I disagree with that.
All right.
I too.
At least with the part, like the idea of, because I hear a lot of people say,
like, you think TLJ is worse than Attack of the Clones.
There's an argument for those, I suppose, but TLJ is pretty bad.
Yeah.
But number one.
Woof.
All right.
I'm glad that I can sleep eight hours after the start of the stream and Efap is still going.
Yeah.
And that's see, that's referring to a different one.
Yeah.
There was that that time when you were with Aiden paladin and oh my God, that was that was amazing.
That was we had the whole wasn't the super chat stream, but it was like five hours.
Something like that.
It was pretty nice.
Hey all, I have a bunch of digital holiday out for you guys.
Where should I send it?
Probably too much for Twitter.
Great stream.
Is it too much for Twitter?
If it is.
Trying to think of, I guess, discord.
Um, my mom should be able to help you out in terms of getting it to the right place.
But I'm curious what it is if it's too big for Twitter, because Twitter can like support a lot of stuff.
Um, am I too late?
Well, if not, y'all fellas hear that Trump watched Joker.
If Joker is our Black Panther, then Trump is our Obama.
I heard, yeah, I heard that he, uh, he had people at the office watch it or something.
So he actually, so that wasn't like a meme or anything, huh?
That was real.
Trump sat down and watched Joker.
I think so.
Yeah, I don't see why not.
I'm sure he watches movies.
Yeah, sure.
Well, say what you will about the guy.
At least he's got taste.
Hmm.
Joker's good shit.
I got two more freebies left.
High rags.
He would say hello.
The super chat freebie here.
If only one rapist is caught, then cinema Roberto's argument is vindicated.
Three and two women are great.
Three and two women are great and desperate times call for desperate measures.
Cinema Roberto was discussed in episode 60.
I don't remember anymore.
Um, I tried to tell you via super chat during DP, but Ben didn't read it.
The guy who punched a baby used the defense that he didn't mean to punch the baby.
He meant to KO the lady holding the baby.
God, how did that go for him?
I wasn't trying to tell a jury that it's not as bad as you think.
I wasn't trying to punch the baby.
I was trying to punch the woman holding the baby.
Oh, it's like that.
It's like that guy that fucking tried to roundhouse kick that one gal,
kicked her right in the head and like, I'm trying to, I tried to kick your phone.
Like, um, it's not a hell of a hell of a lot better there, idiot.
Imagine Disney doing this to Buffy all in service of some new OP slayer destroying
the point of the series finale.
A reboot would be far preferable.
I just say stay away from Buffy, but if they're going to touch it,
it's going to be terrible.
Probably.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
We're all far apart and yet we can talk.
The internet truly is magical.
Imagine what someone from medieval times would Epstein didn't kill himself.
It is pretty amazing.
I think I already talked about this, but I did.
We just reminisced over like Mario Kart double dash
and then my friend just downloaded it and the dolphin emulator.
And bam, we were fucking playing Mario Kart double dash in like 15 minutes
and it looked pretty good.
The internet, man.
There's nothing we can't do.
Except some truth.
Yeah.
Rags.
I've decided to use my two K to buy a gaming PC, but alas,
I am not computer smart.
Where should I go to build the best PC?
Also stance on Koreans.
I don't know what Koreans.
I guess I'll save that question.
Both of those for rags.
Uh, I can say Koreans are really fucking good at video games.
There you go.
That I don't know a heck of a lot of Koreans though.
So I'm afraid that's all I got.
What post workout supplements do you recommend?
I, um, I got no recommendation on that.
Brain force.
There you go.
It's the legendary supplements from, uh, what are they called?
Info Wars.
That's.
Yeah.
Yes.
Uh, packed with soy, I believe for all of your needs.
But yeah, I fucking, I have no idea.
Grace from dark fate.
No chest.
Captain Marvel.
No, but Ray, no character.
Daenerys.
No point.
Feel free to add any others who wins the entitled progressive female award.
PS here's to Dune bringing some sci-fi sanity.
Who wins the entitled progressive female award?
Um, probably Ray or Captain Marvel.
Yeah, I would have to say.
Daenerys wasn't exactly a progressive female award.
She admitted like hundreds of thousands of people.
Yeah.
And it's like, you know, as much as I didn't like her too much,
she, you know, she had something to struggle for at least, you know,
right up until the end there, but, um, I would have to go with Captain Marvel.
That MMO Star Wars, the old Republic had all sorts of great stories without force,
lightsabers, et cetera.
Agreed.
You don't need them to make great stories,
but they're a cool element, uh, in the world.
And, you know, they being heavily relied upon in the sequel trilogy is being like,
look, explosions, star destroyers, lightsabers.
You'll have this stuff.
Palpatine.
Palpatine, cheesy screams and cream cheese.
What was it?
Cream cheese.
No, no.
What were they calling Palpatine?
Creamy Sheave.
That's what it was.
Creamy Sheave.
Creamy Sheave.
Yeah, yeah.
Uh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
The best episode is 48 and 49.
Karl Marx, Homosexuals in the Gallery Museum,
Lesbo Hamill, Apex Lannister and Fake Gamer Ray.
Also, hi, doggy.
It's a fair choice.
I remember those episodes well.
They were a remarkable Republican, I believe, or him and someone else.
I can't remember.
Um, here's my mandatory viewing fee.
Also, play Mass Effect, you massive Lannister.
Once episode 9 critique is done, share our pain.
Oh, because of how Mass Effect 3 finishes, I believe, is it?
Uh, wait, what was that again?
Sorry, I got distracted.
Also, play Mass Effect, you massive Lannister.
Once episode 9 critique is done, share our pain.
Oh, yeah, because Mass Effect 3 ended really bad.
It's like they tried to fix it and it only kind of half did it.
Didn't work out because they made a really big promise and it didn't happen.
And there's a lot of skepticism as to whose fault it is.
By the way, our Mad Lib has just been posted in a chat head-on.
Do you want to look at that real quick?
Oh, yeah.
You're Mad Lib, my friends.
Enjoy.
Art plus plus plus rhino equals equals equals milk.
Mauler and Rags are tismly massive.
Their Isles of Man would be more celestial without Jay.
Rags thinks diabetes, diabetes, diabetes.
Isn't it?
Rags thinks diabetes.
Oh, diabetes, I guess, is a group of people.
Rags thinks diabetes abetted the Jebs, objectively speaking.
I disagree.
Jebs abetted.
But, you know, Rags is entitled to his opinion.
Isn't that right, Rags?
He says yes.
Silent treatment.
Okay.
All right.
Good stuff.
Okay.
Episode nine will be the fall of JJ and Sim reviews.
I think that meant Tism reviews.
But, you know, who knows what's going to fucking happen with reviews?
Video essays.
Holy shit.
It's going to be something.
It's going to be a ride.
Check ER's Twitter.
There's a hot Joker take there.
Oh, yeah, I actually did because I saw that one ahead.
I can't remember what it was, but it was like,
I think we read it out.
Or at least I showed somebody, but there was another one that he had retweeted
where they blocked the O from Joker out, like as if it's a swear word.
Like they put an asterisk there.
Like if they were to say the name of the movie, it would bleep.
And it's just like, what the fuck?
I didn't realize who's that offensive, but okay.
I've seen that multiple times, actually.
Not just there, but like during like the infancy of the Joker's release movie,
there was a lot of people just bleeping the Joker word.
And I think that has, I think that has something to do with YouTube.
Remember when we read that list of things you weren't allowed to say and Joker was on there?
So I think that might have been it.
I don't know.
Joker is one of them words.
Holy fuck, you're still going?
I had a whole shift and we are now still still going.
Party never ends.
So enjoy us in the car on the way back.
Uh, I thought I was going to say hi to my unlisted n-words, but you're still going.
Love you guys.
Also, hi Rags.
Hello as well if you're still there.
If you're still expecting to see unlisted n-words and you're seeing listed n-words.
I hope you're doing well.
Hit about them leaks.
Anakin should have killed us all.
Yeah, well, it wouldn't have mattered because we'd all probably come back anyway.
Yeah, we'd come back and we'd be better than ever.
Um, I'm, if I've been in bed with some whiskey Sargon and arch when that could happen in almost
happened today, uh, we were looking for a guest because I, the guests I had in mind didn't work
out the timing wise and then, um, uh, if only enough, uh, a lot of people get asked and then
they can't make it.
And then like a few days later, they're like, actually, I can.
And it's like, Oh, fuck.
We already have six people all of a sudden.
Yes.
Um, well, that's the thing we, we had nearly a full cast today.
It happens.
It's all good.
We handle everything was handled.
Um, anyway, I'm upset.
Oh yeah.
Uh, now give me an oo-woo doggo.
I saw that last pic of you.
I'm not sure what that means.
Exactly.
I'm upset.
You still haven't seen hardcore Henry.
I'll see it eventually.
I'll see it.
I'll see it.
I'll see it eventually.
I'll do.
I've been meaning to like, I had got that movie and I put it on my phone and I was ready
to watch it on the plane.
And I guess, uh, the app that I was using to watch the video just couldn't read the
fucking thing.
So I was kind of, I was left to watch the last Jedi on the fucking plane on that.
What was available?
And that's how I saw the last Jedi on a plane.
Well, you know, there are worse ways to suffer.
Maybe.
I guess at least I didn't pay money to it.
Mm hmm.
If someone doesn't lose their virginity by 25, should we throw them off a roof?
Mm hmm.
I have to consult the elders and the spiders.
They'll know.
They'll know what we decide to do and we will decide to do.
What about that from that?
It'll make sense.
Yes.
Damn, you guys are still going.
It's funny reading these, but they're from a different stream.
Best drunk movie is Shaun of the Dead.
I think that's a pretty good drunk movie.
Sure.
It's a great movie.
It's a great movie, generally.
Yeah.
Do you guys think God is the answer to nihilism?
I mean, for some people.
Yeah.
I mean, there's a lot of people who just, they can't seem to live without, you know,
believing there's a deity helping them out and, you know, giving them something to do with their
lives.
Anything.
Gotta find meaning somewhere if you feel that nihilism isn't a good enough
end point and you want more.
Yeah, pretty much.
So, you know, go for it if it's for you, man.
You massive release doom video.
Also, I think it's six out of 10.
I think it's probably like that's still not up, is it?
No, and it's still still.
I think it was three days ago.
I got hit with a copyright claim again.
We're still working on it.
Oh my God.
Why doom of all things?
And ironically, now we've been working on this thing for like months and it's like a
40 minute video where we just laugh at doom.
Um, almost every other movies is ready to go, but they have continuity.
So you guys are just going to get a blast of fucking movies suddenly.
And you'll be like, what?
Why did?
But it's coming.
It's coming.
Um, anyway, still going.
Why is Despil shit a fairy?
Not bad.
Not mad.
Sorry.
You're a fairy.
Apparently for the backstory.
It's yeah.
Well, for the backstory is actually, uh, I used to play Guild Wars two.
Um, I don't really want to play MMOs anymore because like the games industry has decided
that everything has to be an MMO, uh, almost everything.
Uh, but, uh, this is, this is a char from Guild Wars two.
I have a warrior.
And so I decided shit.
I'll just get them drawn.
Why not?
Oh, there you go.
That's my char warrior guy.
He's cool, man.
Have you guys Efap to Chris Tuckman's review of TLJ?
If so, which Efap?
No, we haven't.
And I don't know that like any Efap, Chris Tuckman video is like really boring to Efap
too, I'd say.
Um, what was the last Chris Tuckman video that we watched?
I don't think we've ever covered him on Efap.
I swear, I thought we did.
And I don't know.
I could be wrong.
I think we may have referenced it, but I don't think we've ever actually watched one.
And it would be a while before we'd have to have a pretty tismy take to cover him.
He mostly is like the most inoffensive person ever.
And that's part of why he sucks.
Um, hey guys, may the dawn bless you.
Why thank you.
Dawn bless you all.
Hey Rags, do you know of John CJG, the creator of Arby and the Chief?
I do.
I don't think he does.
He talks about a lot of the same stuff as Efap.
We'd love to see him on here someday.
I mean, if he's interested.
Do you still do it still?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure he's still making episodes of Arby and the Chief, actually.
Really?
Yeah, because Fringey's been telling me about him.
Wow, I thought he just straight up ended that.
I grew up with Arby and the Chief.
There was quite a definitive ending on one of the earliest seasons,
but I think you could decide to carry it on.
Yeah, I mean, if ever he showed interest to come on Efap, we'd have him on.
It'd be fun.
Talk to him about Arby and the Chief.
I'd love to talk to him about Arby and the Chief.
All right.
And the final super chat of episode 60, may the dawn be with you.
So we made it through all the previous ones then, huh?
Yeah, now we're finally to this stream.
You know, that wasn't very long.
It kind of sucked that we had to cut off points.
Yeah, I know, right?
It was just the extra, like, I'd say 20 minutes is all we needed.
I think I said it was about 20 minutes.
Yeah, not too bad.
Also, someone in chat said,
I love Johnny talked about you guys a few days ago.
Is that true?
Was it in a good light?
Do you know they've been in a 12 hour stream about a woman?
Well, John CZG, if you like this stuff, we'd be happy to have you.
Yeah.
Somebody timestamp this, even though you can't right now,
because it's not processed and send it to him where we say,
we really like your stuff.
Big fans of actually of Arby and the Chief to a certain degree.
I watched the shit out of them before.
I don't really watch them right now,
but I would happily talk about that stuff with you if you're interested and have you on,
assuming you don't hate us, which is also a possibility.
You got to cover all your bases, you know, pretty much.
Yeah.
Anyway, here we go.
There's a suspicious amount of women on this.
That's a very suitable super chat.
We did have a suspicious amount of women.
If up on a Thursday, a surprise to be sure, but a welcome one.
Oh, in the words of Axel from KH two to a K kill house.
I think he's referring to Kingdom Hearts two.
Oh, I don't know that one.
I've not played that game.
I haven't played any of the Kingdom Hearts series,
but Axel sounds like a Kingdom Hearts character.
So there we go.
Why is it that we do when we want to don't?
Well, sometimes your emotions can get in the way of a pragmatic choice or vice versa.
You could feel you want to do something, but pragmatically, it's too important.
You know, keep me up at night, man.
Mola, why are you torturing women to the wrath of cinema Roberto?
Because more people need to fear him.
OK, that is the guy they were like all of them.
Wolf, Jay Longbone and Star Wars girl all had headaches during his video, huh?
Yeah, it's kind of undeniable.
He's very talented at that.
Like, if anything, weird, he needs to look into that like as a power.
That might be like diabetes power.
He gives people headaches.
Too much.
Yeah, he gives them big.
He gives them a sugar crash without the high.
Whammon.
Oh, my good Christmas podcast.
Oh, my good Christmas podcast.
Yes.
Oh, I get it.
Oh, my God.
Not movie, Bob.
Also, howdy, Anna.
Jay Longbone, Mola rags.
And last but not least, Wolf.
Love you all.
Very kind, James.
I'm sure they'd all have said hi.
Hey, man.
Estimate date for the meme efap mini?
Uh, yeah, there's nothing that I really need to get on that.
That's my bad.
I'm going to definitely get on get on that.
Sorry, I've been because I only for a second there, I was just like,
I've not been doing it.
What's wrong?
I was like, Oh, well, in fitness, I really recently finished the whole
all the Batwoman editing and then all the tisms with sorting out the
different efaps as well as the copyright stuff.
It's definitely I'll sort out.
I swear to God.
It's the same.
I feel bad for the fucking meme stream, the literal meme stream.
It's still locked away and it could still be locked away for another 40 days
before it's on Mola, but it will be viewable hopefully within 10 days
or around 10 days.
So think of that as a December Christmas thing.
It's coming.
The meme stream is coming.
And Wolf is beautiful.
True.
Yeah.
Um, uh, cats has a budget of 300 million.
Why?
300 million.
Do you really think that we can answer such philosophical questions?
Not possible.
These are, these are the questions that people aren't even meant to answer.
It just hurts to know, man.
Uh, what are wamen doing on an incel podcast?
Well, they're incels too.
I mean, you know, like
someday they will, they will shoot up a movie theater for playing the wrong movie.
Exactly.
You know, I'm not saying that like, they're not welcome unless they're in cells on this
podcast, but that is what I'm saying.
Like kind of, kind of disgusts me that someone who's had sex would be on here who isn't rags.
It's like, what the hell?
I mean, what do you guys think he's been doing this whole time?
He's got to charge his batteries, if you know what I mean.
That's fine by me.
Someone's got to get them charged.
You know, we are the incel leftist podcast.
Yes.
Who is also Nazi right-wingers.
Oh God.
Like I haven't been procrastinating enough.
Well, this is seven hours and 17 minutes so far of extra procrastination fuel.
If you, if this is, if movie Bob is your thing, if that is the case, I apologize just for you.
Uh, hail massives.
Hey rags, kick J.
He's already been pre-kicked.
This stream comes pre-kicked.
Remember to walk to your jabs, folks.
Also high rags.
Again, he would be saying hi right now.
He's just a little tied up.
And I don't mean that in a BDSM way.
Well, you don't know that.
All he said was that, uh, he has to go.
He'll be back, I think.
Okay.
Yeah.
Like I said, I just hope he's all right.
Like the amount of time he's been missing without a message.
My brain immediately goes to like, oh, I hope something, nothing really bad has happened.
Oh, silence on the internet means death.
That is the only reason.
He had a really big fart and then he got tired and fell asleep.
But, uh, yeah, um, free super chat for rags.
Well, I will make a note of you.
Oop.
Boop.
Did you ever see Jurassic World battle at Big Rock?
Surprisingly good, in my opinion, for such a short video.
I only had people link me at saying it was terrible.
I forgot to watch it.
Like, um, a couple of fans did and Wolf sent me at saying this is terrible.
So I'm assuming it's not fantastic.
I don't know, though.
You guys aware of the whole copper situation?
I've heard I watched the Chadtronic video.
I've seen a lot of takes on Twitter.
I think all that's left to do now is wait.
Who knows what they're going to do exactly?
I don't think it's feasible for them to fucking find people across country lines.
I think it's going to get extremely complicated.
But yeah, that's absurd.
There's got to be like, I think they're going to review it like the closer it gets.
And I guess we'll just kind of, it's just kind of a wait and see situation.
It just seems too ridiculous.
It kind of sounds like it also feels like a law that they might put in place
that doesn't get acted upon as in like, they're like, we did it.
We passed it now to implement it.
It's like, I don't fucking, you want to implement this?
I don't know.
I don't know how to do internet.
Like in the, in the idea that they're like, being bad is now illegal.
And there's like a kid who pushes another kid and then they're like, that's illegal.
Like, what are you going to do?
Arrest him?
Okay.
So yeah, we'll have to see what happens.
Very happy to see all of you.
Big thanks, y'all.
Thank you for watching.
Free super chat for that Star Wars girl.
Noted.
Though she's got a stream going right now.
Just go and do it there.
Because it'll be less stuff taken off, I would imagine, with transfers and stuff.
She's currently streaming on her channel with the Jack stream, I believe it's called.
She's, it's like the Jack podcast.
A suspicious amount of women here.
Oh, and hi Rags.
He would say hello.
I'm flying to India from Norway soon.
Pretty sure this stream will be going on until I reach my destination.
Hello.
That Jeb girl and Jeb longboned.
I'm sure they would find that to be complementive.
Complementary.
That's the word I was looking for.
So who's rags Jeb's?
I guess it would be, yeah.
I beat Jeb's.
You beat desk, desk, Jeb's shit.
Yep.
Oh, that's bull Jeb.
You could pick Jeb.
First one's better.
Roses are red.
Mustafar's on fire.
I have brought peace, freedom, justice, and security to my new empire.
I was bracing myself for an Epstein, but.
I was soon to be Epstein.
Yeah.
Those things never usually end properly, but that one did.
And it was almost like it subverted me by ending normally.
Yeah.
So congratulations.
You did better than Ryan Johnson.
Free super chat for Jay Longbone.
Free super chat for Jay Longbone.
All hail Jebimus Prime leader of the jebo, jebo bots.
Also hi Rags.
Yeah, it makes sense that Jebimus Prime would be the leader of the jebo bots.
I don't see why.
That's not confusing to me.
Father, grant me slice.
What about dice though?
You can't have one without the other.
That doesn't make sense.
Elizabeth Banks has said.
Yeah, Elizabeth Banks has said,
Charlie's Angels failed at the box office
because men are too naive to enjoy female cinema
and they are scared of women.
Well.
I don't understand why they go for that take all the goddamn time.
Well, in fitness.
You just hate women.
It's like you prove it's just not true.
Over and over again.
I watched the trailer for Charlie's Angels
and I was terrified.
I was in the corner shaking.
I got a blankie and a teddy bear.
I was fucking shaking, to say the least.
Because breasts are scary.
Just strong, intelligent women making choices.
That, there's nothing scary than that.
You never lose.
And you know what?
It's weird.
She's right.
Have you noticed that all female-led films
just don't make money and they're not successful?
Like that Captain Marvel film?
Complete flop.
Wonder Woman, flop.
Force Awakens, flop.
The Last Jedi, flopped.
Rogue One, flopped.
Like fucking hell.
It's just, it's undeniable.
Men cannot watch women films.
I'm glad we noticed this.
No.
Anyway, hello my Jeb Woods.
Depending on your takes, Nando may organize
another one marvelous scene-esque video essay
collab around taking down Efep.
Also, Hi Rags.
Oh dude, that would be wonderful.
Like every video essayist makes a video on how bad we are.
Can you imagine the fucking free press that would be?
Oh man, and then like they need to...
Well, I was wondering if they should like do a collaboration video.
Make it like really goddamn long just to spite the long men.
It begins with like Patrick Willems being like,
there's a problem on YouTube.
And it goes to just right.
And it's like, and that problem is Efep.
And it's like, it'd be great.
Slick editing, loads of references to how we ruin everything.
And then it'd be like, this innocent woman,
Jenny Nicholson, was targeted by these people.
That would be like the fucking best Efep ever covering that.
We would just bring on like fucking 12 people to do it.
Leaks confirmed JJ does cocaine.
I kind of saw that coming.
Free super chat for the rhino spiders.
Oh, they know what's up.
The spiders can see everything coming.
So they know exactly where to go and what ways to get easy money.
So for example, they walk into an arcade or like a gambling machines and stuff.
They'll be like, all right, go to that machine,
press this button and this coin at this time and they get all the money.
They'll be fine. No worries.
Free super chat for Wolf.
Very well.
Love to see you guys react to Star Wars fan films and compare how much better they are
than Disney, especially shards of the past from Star Wars theory.
There could be copyright issues with that.
Also, I don't know.
I don't want to like, what if we end up raining on someone's parade
with those and it's going to come across as pretty ass holy to be like,
hey, fan film, you should be doing this, you know?
And it's like, why don't you guys make it?
Wow, your production value sucks.
Wow, Jesus.
But I can say that they're going to be better than anything
the fucking sequel trilogy has to office.
So don't worry about that.
Just waiting for the next one.
That's going to be insane.
Oh, yes.
Thursday, two women.
What is happening?
Someone hold me.
I'm scared.
You'll be okay, buddy.
You'll be okay.
Make it through this.
There's just six hours to go.
Quite literally.
Hello, long man.
Whammin and wolf.
Hello, you.
Mola reviews movie about space wizards for children copper.
That'll be forty thousand dollars.
I don't I don't have a picture.
They could do that.
But you know, baby.
It's just such a weird scenario to even be considering.
Damn it, guys.
I had stuff to do today.
Do the stuff.
You could just listen to us in the background.
It'll be fine.
Yeah.
But what if he's working with Adio?
Tool is just smash mouth for virgins.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my.
I'm going to copy that for wolf and I call it.
By the way, every question I've ever said that I've copied
and pasted, they are all in this thing.
And I realize I should have looked for ones that have
anything to do with Jay Longbone.
I think there may have been one.
There's a lot that I'd have to search through.
But yes, I'll have to search there.
I'm going for Jay, apparently.
I hope the people who ask these questions
watch every single episode thoroughly.
You will think no more than we do.
You will get your ads to that.
I swear.
And a normal Super Chat for Mauler.
Have a nice day, guys.
Thank you, Eric Stewart.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Good to see that Star Wars girl on Efap.
You're all awesome.
Also, Hi Rags.
He would have said hi.
Hello.
Free Super Chat for Mauler.
I'll give it Mauler.
You're Nazi now.
Would it be okay to make videos
named Unbridled Rage slash Praise?
And why do you not like John Wick 2 exactly?
So firstly, yes, anyone can use
the Unbridled Rage Praise thing.
Doesn't bother me.
Go for it.
It's just a descriptive of what's happening in the video.
I'm not patenting that.
You'll be fine.
Thank you.
The only thing you'd really have to be worried about
is that people who don't listen to the Efap podcast
will probably like go, whoa, man, what a fucking rip off.
Oh, yeah, you probably just have to deal with strangers.
You know, you might have a couple of people
saying you're ripping me off,
but I mean, I'm assuming the video
is not going to be like the same thing,
even if it is as long as you're doing it well, right?
Like for the different movie.
It would work out okay.
Pretty much.
All right.
Wait, what was the Oh, yeah.
Why don't you like John Wick 2 exactly?
So here's the thing.
I despise John Wick 2,
and then I watched John Wick 3 with Fortier,
with alcohol, and we laughed throughout the whole thing,
so it was so bad.
Then I've told I've said this on Efap before,
but I know that this might be new for a lot of people.
You fast forward a bit and Metal Commander,
as you guys all know him,
he decided he was he was free one day
and he wanted to chill out.
And he asked me if there's anything new he should watch.
And I was like, Oh, you should probably watch
the John Wick.
You'll probably like it because, you know,
you like John Wick 2.
And I was like, yeah, just go for it.
And so he did.
And as he was watching it,
he just kept sending me messages like,
this is stupid.
This is fucked up.
This makes no sense.
This is dumb.
What the fuck?
And I was just like,
um, have you put these into like just a notepad?
And he was like, why?
And I was like,
because like, you've almost sent me enough here
to like make a video and you may as well.
I mean, fucking nobody talks about how bad
the job with sequels are.
And then he was like,
well, it's because the second one's not that bad, though.
And I was like,
hmm, hmm.
And he was just like,
okay.
And then I brought it up.
With Fringy,
because obviously he loves John Wick as a franchise.
And he was like,
yeah, third one isn't fantastic.
And he referenced like the end of the third almost
something really stupid happens to John.
And I was just like,
it's a lot more than that.
What's wrong with that one?
And I think we talked about it for a while
and broke it down until he was like,
yeah, third one's not very good.
But the first and second are very good.
And I was like,
hmm, hmm, hmm.
And he was like,
what's wrong with the second one?
And after several conversations,
a rewatch with Wolf and a lot of
what you call dissection with Metal.
Fringy has now concluded that John Wick 2 and 3 are bad.
And the first one's very good.
And Metal is going to make a video for both John Wick 3 and 2,
hopefully, given enough time.
And so I don't want to spoil anything.
But it does seem to be a take that hardly anyone has.
That John Wick 2 is bad.
And yet Wolf thought it was fucking terrible.
Fringy has completely turned on it.
Rags even says that it's fun.
It's not very good.
And I know that a shit ton of people
are very much in favor of John Wick 2.
So I don't know.
But I still think John Wick,
like we rewatched John Wick 1.
And we've looked at arguments against John Wick 1.
John Wick 1 still holds up better
than the other two by far.
And that's my John Wick story.
I would have to agree with Reg is that it's fun.
But it's not really anything that you should be looking to
in terms of what it's like to do things right
in terms of the writing.
It was particularly jarring.
Well, I probably shouldn't say too much.
Anyway, it's just a fun movie.
I'm also the kind of guy that also liked Terminator 3
because I also thought it was a fun movie.
But in terms of story and how they did things
like retconned a few things.
Judgment Day is inevitable.
It's like, oh, Jesus Christ.
But all the practical effects and stuff,
characters, it was a fun movie.
Yeah, Metal will come out with his John Wick 3 video,
hopefully within the next month.
And then it was kind of like depending on
if people actually want to see it,
he'll make a John Wick 2 one as well.
So I don't really want to say anything.
But yeah, look out for those.
It'll be fun.
Anyways, Hi Rags, kick Jay and love you, Wolf.
He loves back and Rags says hi back in spirit.
Unlike Wu-Tang Clan,
Efap isn't for the children.
This is true.
Nando is the name of my roommate.
I asked him how he incurred the wrath of the long man and co.
He said he wasn't gamer enough and he's sorry.
Well, you know, if you apologize for not being gamer enough,
I can see an apology there.
Like, I'm all right with it.
You're doing okay.
Thanks for making my 10 hour shift less massive, Uwu.
Why are you going to say the Uwu?
Why are you going to make it weird?
But yeah, no, good stuff.
We'll keep you company.
That means that guy has got what?
Potentially two and a half hours left of it
if it started at the exact same time,
which is incredibly unlikely, but possible.
Rags is to mauler as milk is to Bilbo.
That sounds oddly sexual, but I'll take it.
You know, we don't have to don't have to look into it.
It's fine.
Yeah, have some YouTube money.
Thank you.
Watch season one of Buffy.
It was good.
Really?
Most people don't think it's good.
A lot weirder than I expected.
I'm interested to see what happens next.
Although Willow's boyfriend being a robot was a bit hilarious.
That's the episode.
It's called, um, I robot.
No, I it's a play on I robot.
I think it's I robot.
You Jane, actually.
It's a play on the the, um,
Tarzan thing.
Well, I might be fucking that up.
It doesn't matter.
The the point is that that episode is possibly
the worst one in the season and season one is pretty weak,
but it gets really good around the end of season two
and mostly onward.
Mauler is trace.
Jay is Fiora or Flora.
Wolf is Keith.
Rags is Natani.
Don't ask.
Just read it.
All right.
Done.
I'm going to assume that's an anime, but it's fine.
Guys, I have real life stuff to do on weekdays.
It's okay.
Just do the real life stuff.
Treat this as a backup for that one day where you have
absolutely nothing to be able to watch.
It could happen.
Mola, my GF hates Jeb Nichols.
Well, I suppose that makes some sense.
She doesn't appeal to everybody, I guess.
Jeb Nichols is, you know, you certainly didn't appeal to us.
I can say that much.
Yeah.
Um, free super chat for that writing and rage fellow.
Noted.
It's time for another Jeb build alt right in cell podcast with
wamens.
Oh God.
The narrative is derailing Joker aside.
How are all you doing?
Also, sorry, jokes aside.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Ah, Joker aside.
Joking.
It's been, uh, it was an interesting stream.
I think we got a lot of interesting discussion on Joker out there.
Um, and, uh, I just need to keep on, uh, drinking things to make sure I don't die.
So that that's, it'll be fine.
Long man uses milk.
That sort of thing.
Kathleen Kennedy said Star Wars isn't like Marvel because they have
no source material to pull from the Star Wars.
They had George Lucas plans, by the way.
Yeah.
She shouldn't have said that.
Yeah.
Really embarrassing because they destroyed the EU.
Jesus Christ.
Yeah.
I saw that earlier today.
Like, yes, you did.
You fucked it up.
I like as well.
Like, she's like, it's hard for us.
Not for you though.
A lot of people would argue it's easier to make your own story instead of adapting one.
Because then you got to like, be really careful.
Yeah.
You just got to be careful with what you've already got there,
which is previous material, of course.
It doesn't need to be written material.
You don't have to go to the books too much.
I think as long as you're just respectful of the fucking characters
and you don't turn them into losers before murdering them,
I think you could have done okay.
I love that idea, by the way.
It's like, if we had source content, we'd know not to destroy characters.
Like, oh.
Of course.
This is how that works.
It's my birthday and I got an eFap.
Best present.
Aw.
Aw, happy birthday.
Yeah, be boythy.
Uh, eFap but with two females?
What the hell is this madness?
I thought this was an incel podcast.
I subbed.
Oh.
Well, now you're just gonna sub now, don't you?
No, this is just, it was the reveal podcast.
You can have wamen who are incels.
It's fine.
Oh, right.
It's fine.
Okay, please subscribe again and ignore the last one.
Um.
EFAP but with two females with the, oh wait, I read that twice.
I don't read that twice.
It was so good, you had to do it twice.
Morning Massives, high rags.
He would have said hi.
Yes.
Free super chat for rags.
Also high rags.
Oh, I feel bad.
You'll have to keep a note like of how many high rags we got and you have to have him on air say hello.
I'll bet like that many times you just be sitting here for a good 10 minutes to say hello, hello, hello, hello.
I'm, I'm waiting for the, like the time where his thing will unmute and he'll be like,
you guys are still here.
Hey buddy.
Or it'd be like, I was talking.
Why are you ignoring me?
Oh yeah.
He fucking mistook the fact that he's been muted for like five hours.
He's like, oh.
I thought you guys would be in dicks.
Zoo tycoon is objectively the greatest game ever made.
All right.
You hit it here, folks.
Zoo tycoon.
I used to play roller coaster tycoon when I was younger.
Good day, long man.
May the dawn, the jab, and the cosmic chicken be with you all.
Wishes upon you, sir.
May the dawn bless you.
Congrats on your 75th appearance rag.
Also, advent calendar is up on website ready for December.
I mean, I'll be checking it out.
75th.
Yeah.
Rags has guessed it now.
75 times.
We didn't even have 75 episodes.
Well, the meet the minis get included in the movies.
Okay.
I can see the logic.
Yes.
Quick.
No time to explain.
Say five words that begin with n.
Oh, never.
Ninja.
Nink and poop.
Yeah.
Nope.
Narnia.
And Narnia.
There's our five.
Yeah.
Send this freebie to Anna.
Anna's streaming right now, guys.
Go get it.
Just go to a stream and we donate right to her stream.
They go.
Yes, but I will.
I will make a note still.
Nando's Nando's.
I love Nando's.
Hashtag Nando's.
All right.
Someone super chatted dollar.
Dollar.
Yeah.
It just says dollar.
Well, it's a dollar sign.
Oh, okay.
All right.
Short and sweet.
This one to Jay Longbone.
Very well.
Very well.
Weeknd.
No, weekday efap.
Is that legal?
Jeb be praised.
I know.
We're breaking all the rules.
I just saw a look up Diabeto family guy clip online.
Does family guy have a Diabeto joke?
Oh, boy.
Did we did we steal?
Diabeto's hilarious.
Fat guy who's starving and bored.
Look, Peter, if you're that hungry, go down to the dock and.
I'm listening to this clip.
I will send you.
Fine, daddy, and we'll get dinner started.
You're not going to get dinner started.
She's going to tell that sloppy old.
I'm going to have to listen to it.
Portions, guys, because you know how copyright goes.
Um, nearly there, though, I'm sure it's made to do it.
And she will.
But only because she needs money to pay for medicine for her prematurely.
Nearly to the punchline.
I'm sure of it.
Just breaking it up enough.
Maturely overweight son, Diabeto.
Gotcha.
Oh, it's no, I didn't.
It's not quite the same joke, but yes, Diabeto.
It does exist in family guy.
Yeah, no.
In our contact, it's Magneto in this.
It's a Spanish day.
Beatty's kid.
Mm hmm.
Both work.
Both work.
I think ours is better because we're better people.
That's my that's my totally fair take.
I'm not biased.
No, no, no.
Never ever ever ever.
Get aid and complete the Trinity.
Oh, well, we'll probably do that down the line.
It'll be when we cover Jeb Nichols again.
That's just too perfect of an opportunity to pass up.
And I'll title.
Should I title it the thing?
Every part of this podcast is about Jenny Nicholson.
And then people will be like.
It says it in the title though.
Oh my god, I didn't read the rest.
And whoever has the bigger dong keeps this one.
I think Rags will desperately want to take ownership.
If that's the rules, you'll be like.
Mm hmm.
I have the biggest dong.
How dare you?
But he's not here.
So I guess we know who the true biggest dong is.
I love these Jeb, Dawn and Tonal people.
Yeah, Jeb, Dawn and Tonal.
They they they kind of they make Eve happy.
You know, they're very important.
Every time I every time I miss it, I hear his name.
I miss him all the more.
Yeah, I see his face.
Everyone's such a legend.
He's been gone now for nearly three months.
I know it's a bummer.
It's a serious bummer.
I hope he's doing okay.
Mm hmm.
Need the monthly thrusts, man.
Uh huh.
Good to see Jay Longbone back.
I've been enjoying all the Batwoman coverage from you guys.
Yeah, like I said,
Batwoman videos are fucking great.
Yeah, like it's it's a good companion thing with with Efap
or you know, vice versa, because it's just like
you jump into her take that I would take.
This is those of other people like that show is really good
for watching people watch it.
It's it's fantastic.
Yeah, I like to watch Jay Longbone's first and then I go over to Efap and like get the
uh on the uncut director's cut version, whatever you want to call it.
It's pretty great.
We get to look at so many women in this episode.
Also, Anna is my number one celebrity crush.
Basho.
The show.
Basho?
For show.
For show.
I got it.
Nailed it.
Yeah, that's it's a fair choice.
So I think Rags would be upset, as would I.
We should be number one and joint number one, obviously.
Mueller, it won't let me send quotes from no bullshit.
Oh, like in Super Chat, do they censor it?
I'm assuming it's the debates are gay or whatever.
You can't say gay.
That's offensive.
Um, even though it's accurate, debates truly are the big gay.
Please give this to Jay and then kick him and take it away.
Oh, damn.
Damn, yeah.
Oh, just imagine it with like a little like a little cup.
I say that it's fine to Efap early, just as long as it's within a week apart.
I mean, these won't be a week apart.
We got, we just had one a few days ago, and we're gonna have another one a few days from now.
We're sorry.
Really, when?
Sunday night, afternoon, well, Sunday night afternoon for Rags and Monday morning for
Australians, which should give you a big clue as to who our guests are going to be.
And we've got the Efap after that already booked.
So much Efap in in this this month, but you see,
it's because episode nine is about to steamroll through Efap, you know?
Oh, yeah.
That'll be the focus.
So much episode nine.
Sorry for asking this again.
But would you guys like to see the tismy Efap story I wrote?
I think the sleep tisms got you distracted Sunday.
It depends.
If it's like old meme story thing, then I don't really understand it through the memes.
But if it's like a full on, you know, book thing, probably not.
Like 20 pages.
It really depends.
He got 20 pages in printer paper.
To whamen, you are killing the patriarchy.
Well, if it's so easily killed, then perhaps it should be killed.
That's good logic, right?
We can't have that.
Yeah, I can't have that weak shit.
I got an A on a thesis paper talking about how shit Ray's character is in TLJ.
She is long man and co.
Hey, not bad.
Oh, what kind of I wonder what kind of class that was.
That's pretty cool.
For for film or English or something.
Yeah, I have a feeling that depending on the quality of the writing,
you probably could have gotten an A if you had said she was a great character
and argued it well enough.
But I don't know.
Like, I just like the idea that the teacher is like, yeah, she's a shit character.
Hey, yeah, which is weird because, you know, you don't know colleges for
the takes that actually make sense like that.
Like, well, you can't criticize a way when you're here
because you were supposed to tow a certain line.
And they buy us colleges right now.
Dun, dun, dun.
Um, a little bit.
Fuck Mary Kill.
Kit Master Fisto Fisto.
Kiadi the Daddy Mundi.
Or Dexter Come Dine With Me Jester.
Okay.
Um, wait a minute.
I need Okay, so I know Dexter Jester, but I don't know these other two.
Caddy Mundi and Kit Fisto.
My god, not a true Star Wars fan.
Caddy Mundi was killed by the clones.
Kit Fisto is killed by Palpatine.
Um, well, I guess you go with fuck Kit Fisto because you got the anime tentacle thing.
I never saw prequel movie two and three.
I only saw the first one.
Whoa, you didn't see those.
I probably should just for the for the sake that everyone else has, you know.
I mean, yeah, keep you up to date, right?
Yeah, if I'm gonna be on this podcast and be for reals, I gotta fucking do that.
You shouldn't have told everyone that.
They're gonna think you're a fraud.
Yeah, yeah, now I'm gonna get kicked.
Shit.
They know the truth, sir.
Um, yeah, okay.
So fuck Fisto makes enough sense, I think.
We got Mary and Kill left.
I'm gonna kill Jester.
It's just he's too thick for me.
Okay, I'm putting it out there.
And it's too grabby with those hands.
And he seems dirty, he doesn't wash a lot.
Even though he's wearing a diner, he just doesn't seem to care.
And that's just not, you know, cool with me.
And then Mary Kiyadi Mundi.
He seemed to care about, you know, the droid attack on the Wookiees.
And that's genuinely how I feel that he's a good man.
So, yeah, there you go.
That was my answers.
You read in the leaks, like the resistance sees hundreds of Palpatine Star Destroyers.
I heard of hundreds of Palpatines, then my phone died.
And I thought for an entire 10 minutes, JJ created clones of Palpatine.
Hundreds of Palpatines.
I mean, do you really think that they won't do that?
You know, there's a chance.
Just saying.
Yeah.
First time catching Efap Live.
Should also check out a Japanese commercial called Long Long Man.
Could make some good memes with that.
Eman Gameplay, I believe, made one of the first memes with that.
He we showcased it on Efap Live, and then it ended up in my TFA part two.
Um, it is quite suitable.
It's good shit.
Wow, Morley, you brought two wamens on the wamen-hating alt-left-right podcast.
What kind of basement dwelling incel are you?
Get a girlfriend already.
Why would I do that?
I'm scared of them.
I mean, is Elizabeth Banks wrong?
I don't think so.
Yeah.
Trying to say we can't trust Elizabeth Banks.
That's fucked up.
Saw a Joker.
Knew about everything.
So I didn't care when I watched you guys, but my GF didn't.
And bro, one was, I was watching my GF and little bro react the whole time.
My said, I have a favorite movie now.
Hi, Wagyu.
I'm glad you have a favorite movie now.
Or whoever did say that, I got a little bit confused there.
It's good shit.
I feel like we're kind of cracking through to that in these podcasts
where we cover people's tismy takes on Joker.
That guy's recommendation for fixing the script, for example,
kind of like, oh my goodness, please no.
But you know, it's how it goes.
I popped back in and saw some segments of this like,
oh, maybe I should wait for later.
I can't handle the cringe.
Stop.
So think about arguing with it.
He really wanted to argue with a girlfriend.
It's like you really wanted Joker to start abusing a woman.
It was insane.
So good news.
Efap the movie is progressing nicely now.
It's going to be nice and long.
Keep up the good work and remember to water your jabs.
You'll be very important later.
All right.
The Efap movie.
I have no idea what exactly that is, but color me excited.
Watch it be like the greatest thing ever.
Like no joke.
I am a child watching this stream stole my mommy's card.
Ha ha PPE poo poo in the rooftop water closet with the door open so rags can see.
Oh, I'm sorry, right?
Surprise.
There's the Efap.
The dawn is smiling upon us all.
Oh, absolutely.
And what a fine smile it is.
Yeah, I wouldn't imagine anything less.
Hi rags.
I want to send you the Darth Bane trilogy.
Is there any way?
Um, I will save this for him to do in case he has a specific answer for that that I am
not aware of.
Also, you guys thoughts on the movie Troy?
It's my third favorite movie.
Also, Hi, Anna and Jay Longbone.
I like Troy.
I rewatched it about a year ago and I remember thinking, you know what?
Ain't so bad, but maybe I'm unaware of how bad it really is.
I don't know.
I have fun with it.
I'm not familiar.
Maybe I'll have to go into Seattle around December.
Maybe if it's as good as you say, maybe I'll grab it.
It's kind of old movie.
I think it's like 2004 or something.
But yeah, we looked at one of them.
Sorry.
That's okay.
One of my favorite movies, Collateral, I believe was 2001.
Oh, no, I just mean, I don't know how easy it'll be if you have it.
Oh, no, I just mean, I don't know how easy it'll be if you find like on a shelf or
something, but yeah.
No, I'm not doing a shelf.
I'll just find it digitally somehow.
Just came from Rags's video.
We roasted movie, Bob.
Yes.
Oh, we were, you know, five hours ago.
He's never going to come on now, dude.
As if he was ever going to come on.
Like, really?
That's true.
That's true.
So you might as well seal a deal and have some fun, right?
I would love it if he tweets out a screenshot of the thumbnail and he's like,
he's in cells made a 10 hour podcast on Murray and no one cares.
Doesn't get retweeted or anything.
It's just like, go away, Bob.
Yeah, you should put like one of the diabetos in the thumbnail.
Dude, if anything on Twitter like that happens, I'll be like,
why would you criticize like those people drew some fat art?
I just said of a folder of diabeto.
Bodmer slash pemdas test negative three plus three times four times five
exclamation plus six times seven plus eight.
I mean, okay, I can't be doing that shit right now.
But I don't know if it works with both or works better with one.
I'm assuming that it works the same with both or whatever.
I don't I don't know.
I can't remember if there's actually like significantly significant
difference between bodmas and pemdas.
That conversation was enlightening.
That was the Aiden stream, actually.
But yes, you 10 minutes late.
So I missed about one percent of the horror.
Yes, unfortunately, still you're just that much more sane.
So much I'd like to say to thank you.
But every time I type the dollar amount goes up.
So thanks for reading this in your monotone voice, you massive.
I don't think I'm monotone.
I think that's an outrageous claim.
See, that's different tones.
Yeah, God of nailed it.
But thank you.
An efap on my birthday.
Praise be the dawn.
I was from email.
Happy birthday.
Another birthday.
Yeah.
Happy birthday, man.
Mauler, dankmas and real gyms equals good Simpsons vids.
Dankmas and real gyms.
The real gyms.
Are they channels?
Good Simpsons vids.
Oh, wait.
I think it's saying dankmas and the real gyms have good Simpsons videos.
Fair enough.
I do like me some Simpsons.
Sneaky ones.
What?
They're still going, aren't they?
What are they on there?
Like their 28th season?
Oh, Simpsons.
Yeah.
Jesus.
Yeah, I'm still coming.
Sneaky ones.
You forgot to remind me for this efap.
Oh, we didn't tell anybody about this.
In fact, I was suggesting it to Rags and Wolf and then Wolf just put it on Twitter.
He was just like, efap's happening.
I was like, dude, we don't even know.
Like, for sure.
Okay.
You're creating expectations.
That's the worst thing to do.
I'm surprised to watch anime with Theo in two hours and they need to eat.
By the dawn.
Why is this on a Thursday?
Regardless, have a fun stream you incels.
Have a fun watch of anime, you my fellow incel.
I hope it's a good one.
There's not many.
Yeah, there's like three good ones.
The rest of them are terrible.
Hey, Wolf.
I'm just joking.
It's a subjective thing.
Have you checked out Clamavi de Profundus yet?
I am going to save this question.
It sounds like the big game.
I'm being honest with you.
Yeah.
Like, who would read?
Be honest.
God, in this current year, Jesus.
What are you guys' thoughts on RVB?
Red versus blue?
Oh, red versus blue.
It's good stuff when I watched it like years ago.
I don't really know what's going on with it right now.
It was pretty, you know, it was quaint.
Later on, they kind of seemed like they were farting around a lot.
Like, they stuck on one joke and then kind of stretched it out for like too long.
Got pretty bad.
And then Monty Om showed up and started animating some of those fight scenes.
Those fight scenes were pretty fucking sick.
And then, unfortunately, he passed away and I hadn't really kept up since then.
But RVB had a pretty, it was pretty solid.
One of the funniest thing in the world.
But, you know, I got some, got some smiles here and there.
I enjoyed my time with it.
Oh, there you go.
I don't know nothing about it at all, honestly.
Also, Mueller, I'm serious about need this money for rent.
All right.
Just keep it for red.
Also, Jack, can I get a fucked up?
Can I get a padarao?
Shit.
Chat.
He wants you to say padarao.
Shoot.
I need to fill the 150 word.
Oh, and he did.
There you go.
Bob, I don't go get the rooftop.
Oh, I get it.
Like the second Bob speaks, you can get that rooftop.
I was going to finish rewatching the boys tonight.
There's a tonaled 1.2 billion reference in episode one,
but I'm ready for another sleepless night of fapping.
See, that's commitment right there, fellas.
That's what we call commitment.
Hi, Rags.
Thanks, Jay, for finally booking Anna.
Thanks.
Oh, again, because he's the manager.
That's true.
He's the manager.
How many guests will a movie Bob video take down today?
Also, Hi, Rags.
Technically, technically, did he get Rags?
Did Rags die between videos or did he die during the?
I felt like he died between.
I think he made it through, and then maybe he kind of had
the little death lurch through his house and then just keeled over.
Yeah, that must have been.
But he survived just long enough to see it to the end, and then he died.
And then you go, that Star Wars girl took some painkillers,
so that counts as at least a half kill, partial kill.
Wolf took several breaks, so he was like resurrected several times.
I think that still counts as a kill.
So yeah, movie Bob's doing pretty great, honestly.
Very good record at this point.
The body count keeps going.
Good job, Bob.
Not going to take it away from you.
Nobody tell Bob who invented rockets.
Doesn't matter.
He deserves to have his robotic body talking to sentient AI.
I just love the idea that he actually feels that the will took that from him by being lesser than him.
How could he possibly be taken seriously by the left?
Shouldn't they consider him to be a fucking idiot?
Ah, I have a hard time with just whether or not any of this is true anymore.
This is stuff that I hear.
Is Bob real?
Is Bob a hallucination?
I know.
Has Bob been here?
Has he been placed here to just test us all?
Because I feel like that's what it is.
Bob Chipman is the Titanic if YouTube, but not as tragic
because everyone knew this would happen with him.
I mean, I don't think he's ever going to stop making videos.
I don't know why escapist would have rehired him.
That's such a weird choice.
Did they can him at first?
I think he went separate ways with them, but then rejoined them.
I really don't know.
Because I know he started out with them, I think, right?
Oh, did I lose you?
No.
Something went weird.
Hello.
Am I back?
Am I back?
Yeah.
Excellent.
I was just saying.
That was weird.
Singapore did that and everything.
Singapore?
Why?
Yeah.
As far as I know, he like left escapist, started with them,
then left them, and then rejoined them.
And I just, I don't know.
I guess they really wanted extra content of some kind.
I think you can call that content in some universe.
It's possible.
Yeah.
I guess escapist really couldn't say no, because for a while,
like in its infancy, they had plenty of shows and now they've got like two.
I'm just looking at chats frozen.
It's spooking me.
Yeah.
I don't know what was going on here.
It gets a chat kind of felt it too.
Oh, there we go.
Are we good?
All right.
As long as it keeps moving, I know things are alive.
I'd also like to note that Bob made fun of that kid for whining that life supply of chicken for
being fat, despite the fact that he's also fat.
That tweet about the chicken kid was weird.
All about it was weird.
So Bob made fun of a fat kid.
I can't remember specifically.
He was talking about like how the child looks like a 50 year old something,
something, something teamster.
I think I can't remember.
It was like, Bob, why would you make fun of a little kid for his looks?
Like you're just inviting a response there.
Very specific response.
Bob, you got to pick on adults.
Come on, dude.
Mola, my male member is very small and I've been letting Ra and Rags double team my boyfriend,
Carl, but here's my question.
And then there's no question.
Strange, but I will allow it.
Rags.
I often produce stool samples with my lab door open for you.
Oh, see, some people think that's weird.
I think that's kind.
It's considerate that they're chose trust.
Chose trust.
Yeah, and they're just trying to let Rags explore some new stuff.
I don't know.
Go on.
Eight hours has passed.
Yes, we've hit eight hours.
Exactly.
Actually, though, I will say our pace on this is going faster than I expected.
We might be able to get done by 12 hours.
How fucking sad is it?
Insane is that like you're like, oh, it's going fast.
It'll only be four hours.
Let's fucking do it.
Hi, Wolf.
Rags and molar take my shackles.
Why?
Thank you.
Kathleen Kennedy's calcified queef.
Wow.
Is that a name or just this message?
That's just the message.
It says Cheers Wolf at the end of it.
All right, then I'm taken by surprise by that.
Congrats, sir.
Um, do taxon has been really weird on Twitter lately.
Yeah, there's been loads of, um, loads of tweets about if app, um,
and really passive aggressive, really bitter.
And it's interesting because, um, like, I think Jay is trying to straddle a sense of like,
yeah, you know, this tax and cool, uh, we cool everything cool, but it's difficult.
A lot of those tweets coming out.
Um, there was an argument that was like,
oh, we don't get it in relation to the arguments are supposed to be bad.
I was like, who the fuck ever said that?
Like, yeah, it was a quote.
I was like, what?
I don't know that anybody's defended
if app by saying the arguments are supposed to be bad.
I was just like, okay, lots of weird stuff on, uh, on Twitter.
Yeah.
Um, Twitter sucks shit, dude.
And, uh, yeah.
And we still get messages every once in a while.
It's like, are you going to cover the video on ranks?
Like, I think at this point, like I didn't, honestly, this wasn't my take at first,
but I'm starting to get really convinced by it.
I think we're dealing with like a standard troll, like don't feed the troll sort of situation.
It really seems like that.
Because boy, boy, fucking howdy.
I have never seen two people try this goddamn hard to antagonize somebody that they don't even watch.
It's like, so I don't know.
It just kind of seems like they're really trying for attention.
And it's kind of to the point where I feel like we shouldn't even just give it to them.
Well, there's the thing.
It may have, it would have worked if the video did more damage,
but it was just not particularly well made.
And the overall messages rags is has subtle bigotry.
And that makes him the worst person on YouTube.
It's like, uh, subtle bigotry argument doesn't really follow through there.
And, um, there's loads of like, there's loads of cut, uh, elements to it as well.
There's somebody who's posting like timestamps and responses
whenever there's tweets about it.
It's just funny.
Oh yeah.
That was something someone noticed as well.
That kind of turned me on this.
They're like, whenever you see a bigger tweet from tax in relation to eFap,
you'll often find the thread ends with a plug.
Like, hey, check out my video on this.
Hey, check out my channel.
I cover this thing.
You're like, so, um, yeah, they're saying anything to get a rise.
And it's like, do you really believe that's the case?
Considering I've labeled them the fucking most dishonest person on YouTube
that I've come across, not a big surprise whatsoever.
So yes, very weird behavior.
And, um, I guess we don't want to encourage it at all.
That behavior.
I mean, yep.
Gonna stay relatively clear.
I suppose.
Oh my God.
What the fuck?
I'm back.
Hey, dude.
Yep.
What is up?
What is up?
What happened?
You're right.
I had to go.
Had to go back now, but had to go.
Hey, Todd.
Are you in good, uh, feelings, mental and physically?
Is everything all right?
Good.
Good.
All's well.
All's well.
Well, welcome back.
You missed coverage of a particularly tismy Joker take again.
We did another one.
And, um, we looked at beams and now we're on super chats.
Oh, good, good, good, good, good, good.
And I'm filler, man.
Yes.
Oh.
And also that Star Wars girl is set to, she said she will return.
Other than that, you've missed, uh, several, I want to say like 16 high rags.
Oh my goodness.
I'm going to have to say one collective hello and return.
Oh my gosh.
The, uh, if app 62, the high rags episode, the apex.
Hello.
We, I thought we were going to get it.
I don't know what's happening.
Oh, well, I'll put it.
Well, I figured with the rest, right?
You know, you get the next one and then it'll be, because if I just say it now,
then it'll be, uh, like, you know, it won't come with a, it won't be in a pair.
You know?
All right.
We'll save it for the next one.
Um, here's a free super chat.
Thank you.
And this next one says kick rags.
Also high rags.
Hello.
There you go.
There you go.
Feels good to have him go.
It's so much more natural that way.
You can never use too much lube dildo ragons.
Yeah, it's a strong quote.
It's an undying quote.
Rags.
This just says rags.
I will pay you to stop.
It's almost referring to.
Well, you heard the man stop.
Oh, right.
When you were talking the super sexualisms at the beginning of the stream, I think.
Oh, I don't think that ever happened.
Those little, those little stamps are adorable.
Holy shit.
Yes, they are.
And they don't show up on the rechatted chat.
It's bullshit.
YouTube needs to.
Oh, it's downright wrong.
I'm sick of this.
I call disms.
Let's scroll and look at some of these memes.
Some of them are quite good.
Do you think Ryan was going Kennedy his Johnson?
Do you think Ryan was going Kennedy his Johnson?
If that means sexual favors from Kennedy for Johnson, who knows what's going on?
Hollywood is a weird man.
And Kennedy is Johnson.
That's a weird one.
It is a weird one.
Undeniable.
I don't know.
I was about to say, like, is he assassinating the Johnson?
I don't know.
That's the complication of words.
The English language.
You never know.
I feel like Jar Jar is somewhere in the basement chained to the floor responsible
for writing the sequels in exchange for his freedom and redemption.
Possible.
I'm not going to say that that's what was in the leaks, but something similar to that,
I'd say.
He's George Lucas.
No, no, Jar Jar.
He's writing the films and he's in the films, writing the films.
Like, it's going to be this whole thing.
Oh, well, man.
Holy shit.
Can you imagine?
Oh, yeah.
Like, they've killed all the characters.
All they have left is to bring Jar Jar back and then kill him.
We actually made a thing about that.
Like, Jay said he'd be really sad if they brought it back just to kill him.
We'd be like, Hey, it's OK.
He's only better that way.
I mean, that's basically what they've done with C-3PO.
Yeah, they've only brought him back to kill him.
I'm pretty much with everybody.
Yes.
Hello, metal.
He's woken up.
Um, I don't know.
Yes.
Hello, metal.
He's woken up.
Hey, he's on the end shift, as you said, as one says, with F up.
McMuffins for everyone.
Or maybe two.
How much do they cost these days?
Waiting for Charlie's Angels Review.
Don't let Drinker be alone.
I don't even want to fucking touch that movie.
Drinker actually did a Charlie's Angels Review.
Yeah, I know.
I saw it.
It's funny.
The film seems fucking terrible.
Wolf, if you could DLT the ST, but you had to be KKs.
Delete the sequel trilogy, but you had to be KKs.
He has to belong to Kathleen Kennedy.
Kathleen Kennedy?
You could.
Oh, you have to be her.
Wait.
Oh, no, I ain't going to be her.
Well, wait, what if he becomes Kathleen Kennedy, but then he
uses her responsibly and then writes a better movie?
Well, I guess that's up to Wolf.
Okay.
Did you live in a world where we have good Star Wars movies
and you're Kathleen Kennedy?
Well, you know, you got to take one for the team.
You can.
As long as somebody does, someone take the bullet.
I've never seen Internet historian and Mola in the same room.
I mean, he and I sound very differently.
I don't really get the impression how people are seeing
my voice in him as the same, but, you know, we can't possibly
be, we can't record together.
I did try to invite him and he said he can't possibly make it
to an eFap and any public platform with me at the very
same time.
That's obviously because we are very much different people
and we have different schedules.
That's all.
It has nothing to do with anything else.
You guys are just conspiracy theorems.
That's all that is.
Ridiculous, ridiculous pool boy for a year.
Would you do it?
What boy for a year?
Why, why is that the whole super chat?
Yeah, just as a boy for a year.
Would you do it?
No, boy.
No, boy.
So are you cleaning somebody's pool?
Yeah, but what do you think a pool boy does?
They sent this.
These super chats are broken up and they're between other
ones of their own.
Like there's a gap.
Oh, of course.
It's so it makes it so simple.
It makes it so easy.
I'm pretty sure they could have sent this in one,
but I guess not.
So the idea is, see, I actually thought that you have to
be Kathleen Kennedy was more interesting, but then I guess
this is another question.
So what do you think, Rags?
You get to delete the sequel trilogy, which, by the way,
doesn't necessarily guarantee any good Star Wars content.
It just means you delete in some crap stuff.
But in exchange, you have to be Kathleen Kennedy's
pool boy for a year.
Would you do it?
Oh, got it.
Okay, that makes more sense.
You must pay pretty well, right?
Like, oh, that would pay well, probably.
I assume so.
Oh, man.
But she would like she would probably like ruin pools,
you know, like she ruined Star Wars for me.
She's like that person where she walks, things just crack
and burn and turn black.
And she's like, Oh, no, this is like Godzilla walking
through the city or things just melt and that.
Yeah, I think it's a Simpsons episode where like Mr.
Burns like holds a flower and it just dies.
Is that sort of thing?
It's like maybe the water she repels water.
The water doesn't want around it.
Yes, that like just everything.
She can't jump into water because she'll just hit the
bottom of the pool immediately.
It runs away from her in fear.
You see the water crying.
So instead, she has to fill the pool with acid and then it
all evens out and there's a problem for cleaning.
Yeah, then Scrappy Dee jumps in.
Fuck that little shit.
Oh, shit.
Yeah, the Scrappy Do memes.
God, it feels like a lifetime ago.
All right.
I like some of these games though.
Yeah, no, it's good shit, right?
Yeah, some of these are really good.
Wolf.
I recently longman the entire Lord of the Rings trilogy
extended edition in one sitting.
I have to agree with a closer look that Helms Deep is
celestially epic.
You would very much agree with that.
In fact, Wolf might even describe it as bone chilling.
Bone chilling.
Admiral Holdo is a Kathleen Kennedy insert.
I mean, I could believe that.
Like, she's like...
They almost look similar.
Like, if you do the hair down.
Maybe.
Maybe.
Like I said, I'm just gonna say it.
I believe it.
I believe it.
That's as far as I'm going with that.
Oh, man.
If that turned out to really be the case.
Like, if there was an email leaked or a sump man,
that's that would be so fucked up.
I believe it too.
This whole trilogy, this whole terrible trilogy
was just in service to her cinematic fantasy.
I'm legal Jedi.
Have fun and work, Mr. Metal.
He said he's going to see us flip flops later.
Pretty racist, but okay.
No sources.
She had Star Wars Episode 7 through 9 lined up by Lucas.
Yeah, but they ditched all of it
and they couldn't exactly bring his Episode 9 back in
once they've made a completely different 7 and 8,
but she's still wrong.
Like, watch him watch him do an Episode 9
that just randomly gives some other film.
There's a whole set of new characters.
The fucking opening crawl is just like
previously on Star Wars
and it just shows like a bunch of clips
from people we've never seen before.
It's like, get to the reactor.
We don't have enough time, Sheila.
Gonna have to go alone.
We're like, what the fuck is this?
She can't handle it anymore, Captain.
I don't know what's going on, but thank God.
Yeah, it just shows like Luke be heroic.
He just looks at the screen.
He's like, it's fine.
We're okay.
We're okay.
Fine, don't worry.
And that's why Jar Jar is missing from the new ones.
I'm not sure what that's referring to,
but I think he knew better than to turn up
into the sequel trilogy.
I don't speak too soon.
He's alive.
He's probably alive.
Dude, I hope he's on a beach living at large.
Jar Jar doesn't need no sequel trilogy.
He's doing great.
He's in some swamp somewhere.
I like those disgusting Gungans like
they like their swamps.
So they're like ogres.
He's swimming around, talking to bushes,
kind of getting a little crazy in the head.
Yeah.
And then a fucking storm trooper just comes in,
shoots him in the head because he's a character
that exists and he has to die.
The second he's entered into the trilogy,
he just gets sliced apart and just loads of pieces.
It turns out Jar Jar was the mole and now he's dead.
And then it should be like,
oh my God, he was a clone the whole time.
And you're like, wait, what?
What?
It's like, sir, they seem to be happy when we don't kill him.
It's like, bring him back, bring him back.
I just love that you're flushing Akbar out the fucking window.
Then they're just like,
fans aren't happy with this.
And I can just picture Kathy,
Kennedy, Ryan Johnson being like, why?
I don't understand.
I don't get it.
I just don't get it.
Why don't they like our Star Wars movie?
Are they sexist?
Why don't they like our vision?
I used to love Star Wars.
Now it's depressing.
Well, you try and, it's like Joker.
Used to be a tragedy.
Now it's more of a comedy.
TLJ was a tragedy.
Episode nine is the comedy.
Wasn't Joker too announced recently?
Yes.
Okay.
You are pessimistic about that, huh?
I just feel like it didn't need a sequel.
Um, I don't know that.
I don't know if that prevents it from getting one.
I just hope it's good.
Yeah.
Well, let's really cross our fingers on that one.
I agree.
It's much more at risk with a sequel
than there is with one film.
Yeah.
I think it's going to be pretty hard to match up.
Pretty sure as well.
If it does well, he's going to get more power to me.
I'm pretty sure they even said he's got a potential deal
to make another DC film other than Joker two.
And you realize if he's successful
with either one or both of those,
he's going to get his own DCU.
Dang, dude.
And like, I find that.
He can pull it off.
That's amazing.
Yeah.
I can see Ross saying, no, it wasn't.
No, it wasn't.
Oh my God.
I, uh, I think we may have gotten something wrong.
I don't know.
Apparently Ross said that Todd Phillips
denied the report.
I'm going to have to look into that.
Oh, okay.
Well, yeah, no, fair enough.
I already read.
I saw like an article about it.
I don't know for sure.
Yeah, I saw it this morning.
I'm like, oh, come on, man.
So I guess, uh, yeah, I guess that was a lie.
Maybe not my cat.
Yeah, I kind of hope they don't.
I mean, recent Hollywood has made me kind of.
I would actually say that is the very reason why I actually want it.
It seems to be one of the very few remaining lights of hope
for a potential movie that's better than garbage.
So go for it.
If it's terrible, I'll always have the first Joker anyway.
It's true.
The thing of it is, it's like, I just feel like when something
gets really popular, a lot more people want to meddle with it
and then they fuck it up.
Yeah, I think that's fair.
That's just kind of how it's been for a while.
It'll be something to worry about.
It's pretty high with cinematic universes.
If they just let him make a good movie, it might be really good.
Really good.
But I'm actually more on board giving him another DC character
to do a movie for.
Yeah, that'd be nifty.
And it's only like very lightly tied in with the Joker.
Sure, yeah.
Put it in that universe, I guess.
Have some references there and I don't know what we're going to do with it.
This is the thing.
I don't want to tell the man his business.
He made a good movie.
I give him full credit to see if he can do it again.
And I hope he can if he does.
Anyway, not censoring Joker.
What is he thinking?
Yeah, I know.
Some people actually write the word Joker without censoring it.
Like, as if we haven't had to deal with enough today.
Like, geez, that's quite the dog.
Downright insensitive.
I've seen that a good half a dozen times now.
That's crazy that people would censor Joker.
Well, I think that has a word.
Yeah, really.
But I think that has to do with the censored words on YouTube.
That list that we read and Joker's on there.
So I have to imagine they're trying to keep the monetization up.
Huh?
These are tweets.
Well, now I just don't fucking know.
Yeah, you can monetize tweets and I need to get back.
We're going to introduce both Facebook and Twitter.
We're supposed to be introducing some kind of monetization thing.
I don't know how that would work.
I know Facebook was.
Oh, imagine putting ads on tweets.
Oh, Jesus Christ.
It's bad enough.
You know, right?
That actually feels like that'll happen.
Honestly, thinking about it, like, you can view this tweet in five seconds.
Like, oh.
You know, what's funny, though, is like some people will have embedded videos
and their ads on it before the video starts.
Oh, that's probably what it is.
So we're kind of already there.
Yeah, that's probably what it is, yeah.
Yeah.
Anyway, isn't Palpatine's deal is that no one can break free from the dark side?
TLG defenders love that arrogance,
but this is the one time I'd use that argument against the sequels.
No one can break free from the dark side.
Vader did.
Yeah, I was going to say whether or not Palpatine thinks that we know it's not true, I guess.
Yeah, we have an example.
Uh, Efab bad.
I've never watched it and I don't watch it, but I know it's bad because Longman bad.
P.S. Hi, wags.
Yeah, that's fair enough.
Hello.
Hello.
Hi there.
And Anna, Jay Longbone, Wolfie, and Miawa.
Hello.
Have a bone, wags.
Oh, thank you.
Only clowns can say the J word with a hard R.
Only clowns can say the J word.
Like, cloud is like a very serious label.
Are you a cloud?
Prove it.
Usually you have to squeeze your nose and it goes.
But you're like, okay, good.
That's the test.
Could you do episode nine, Efab in a special way?
We have multiple guests changing like in 50, all talking about how they love the movie.
I mean, we'll do one free episode nine, but I don't think we're going to be doing
anything specifically special for it outside of just talking about that shit, you know?
Yeah, I can't imagine we'll do another 24 seven one or 24 seven.
Fucking hell.
Oh, 24 seven.
That'll be the most experimental.
You heard about the 24 hour Efab.
24 seven Efab.
It'll be Efab episode 1000 and it'll be that I literally sleep in alternating like
12 hour portions.
You know, like we start upstream and then I go to sleep and you guys have to carry it.
Or we all just go to bed and we leave it on for eight hours and nobody's talking.
We let anybody come in and go out at their leisure.
We fucking leave the invite open and just people from chat pour it like,
I want to comment on the video.
Ah, Drunken Peasants is in chat.
Hello there.
Hello there.
Yes, it is eight hours.
But in fairness, how long have we been doing super chats now?
Is it two hours?
Yeah, we started six and a half hours, right?
Yeah, that's about right.
So yeah, we've been doing super chats for two hours.
Okay, so it's not a crazy long stream.
It's your average standard normal six hour stream.
Everyone has those.
This is average.
Uh, here's a free super chat.
Our average is above average.
Rags.
Hello.
Destiny two is free on steam ever.
Oh, that's that ends with a full stop.
I don't know if.
Do you care about that?
Destiny two is destiny two is free on steam.
Full stop.
There's there's more to it, but it's not.
Oh, I thought there.
Oh, okay.
I thought there was more.
I was waiting for the more of it.
I'm aware that it is on steam.
Yes.
No, there you go.
I'm too old.
I don't really have.
Yeah, I don't really have an interest and
kind of just I don't care about destiny two.
Maybe I've heard it's gotten better,
but I guess I'm just not interested enough to delve back in.
I'm happy for those who like destiny two,
because it looks like it's gotten better ever since.
Bungie went their own way.
Cool.
Yeah.
And then it follows up with ever watch hippo zone.
Hippo zone.
Hippo zone.
I'm going to guess no for all three of us.
And then it ends with you and I will poop on the same seat
at the same time looking in each other's eyes.
Can three people fit on the same?
I think they mean specifically you.
You and them.
Yeah.
The two of us.
So well, still, I guess that makes things slightly more doable.
But it's a it's a big seat.
I guess you can fit two butts on there.
Can be kind of awkward.
But I mean, Rags, are you refusing this offer?
I'd rather.
No, I don't think I will join you.
All right.
Mutual who.
Well, this this.
No, I want to poop alone.
And with no one else around me.
Also, with the door closed.
Yeah, I am.
That's that's denial right there.
He is denied.
I'm going to I'm I'm going to deny the the this pooch you all with you.
Pooch you all pooch you all.
Sup beaches.
Love y'all.
Why thank you for the kind.
Oh, hello, bitch.
This is money.
It can be exchanged against goods and services.
Also high regs.
Oh, hey.
Please do an efap with Batman Eats toothpaste.
What?
So do we just reenact that?
Does he have like bad teeth or covering an episode of some series
or a movie where he does this?
I don't know.
Is this maybe this is some kind of like one parody thing.
With like toothpaste and Batman.
Yeah, why not?
Sticks of to the toothpaste of his back man.
Even if you're doing porn, it's good to have clean teeth.
He's referring to eating it and it's very specific fetish, but don't judge, I guess.
Okay, good stuff.
You should cover robot heads review of Mandalorian.
They have him come in.
Wait, sorry.
Then have him come in to talk about it afterwards.
Well, well, funny.
You should make a hot take.
He definitely had a hot take.
He got like 50% like dislike on his video.
Yeah, a lot of video.
And that's robot head.
He's a crowd pleaser in terms of like people like him a lot.
So he must have said something.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
Hello all my Edwards.
Hello.
Hello.
Hippoman bad.
I cannot confirm if that is true, but it sounds agreeable.
I will say that.
Um, Swole PSA, sitch or ditch called Murdoch alt right propaganda.
Who's Murdoch?
I don't know who that is.
Did he say sitch called somebody this?
Well, he says PSA ditch, but I assume they mean sitch.
Huh?
Well, if S becomes D what becomes M, maybe it's not Murdoch, maybe it's
Lurdock.
Oh, Lurdock's an asshole.
Yeah, I agree.
All right.
Propaganda.
Lurdock.
Fucking Lurdock.
I don't know.
I don't actually know who you're referring to in this tweet.
No, I'm afraid I don't either.
Rags is the dawn confirmed.
Oh, I don't want to.
I don't want to fill those shoes.
Yeah, that's hard shoes to film in that smile can't be beat cannot be replicated.
Well.
Well, how are my alt right leftist Nazi communists today?
We are great.
Yeah, I mean, it seems contradictory to sort of people.
It's not, though.
It's not.
You can hold views that contradict each other at the same time.
You just have to sort of absolutely not think about it.
That's all.
Rag rags makes my pee pee up.
Ooh.
Also, hi, wags.
Hello.
Rags was a boss.
So, so cool.
Rider now confirmed in law.
Also, so cool.
I don't.
Oh, isn't that one of the names of the stamps?
One of the stamps.
Yeah.
You know, those little doggo stamps that YouTube lets you put up.
No, it's a so boss.
So is a Japanese youth subculture associated with customized motorcycles.
See, and he knew that off the top of his head because he's definitely that.
Yeah, I knew that off the top of my head.
I definitely didn't if here I couldn't have googled it because I don't know how to spell it.
Yeah.
Well, so there you go.
It's proof.
Dude knows our wags better than we do, apparently.
Yeah, we need to work.
I didn't know that.
I didn't know that.
Um, incoming weird vomit.
Buckle up, buckaroos.
Buckle up, buckaroos.
That was weird vomit if we're referring to movie.
Oh, yes, yes.
The alien they meet with at the beginning of TROS is called Boolio, according to the
latest leaks.
Also, Snoke was just a pawn as well.
Oh, of course.
Ah, Boolio.
The.
Um, no.
Well, they'll probably keep telling us.
Snoke doesn't matter.
And it's like, guys, you told us he matters.
Stop saying he doesn't matter.
He clearly fucking mattered.
Like the idea that they're like, he's just a powerful guy who,
you know, resurrected the empire.
He like, stop saying that.
He's just a powerful guy who resurrected the empire.
It's an extremely powerful force user who trained Kylo Ren and
caused the downfall of Luke Skywalker and created the first order.
What?
Yeah, it's important.
Um, been too long since I caught a livestream with Star Wars girl.
Also, hello.
All good to make it.
Hello.
All good to make it.
Oh, hello.
All good to make it.
Good to make it.
Hello.
Nailed it.
Of course.
Um, hello, fellow humans and rags.
Random question.
What kind of audio setup do you have?
Microphone mixer interface.
Voice sounds really clean.
Love from Finland.
I just used an 80 2020 USB and it just plugs into the computer and that's all I'm using.
I don't have a, I don't have a mixer or anything like that.
That might be my next step to the next thing to kind of get.
But right now it's just a mic plugged right into the back of the PC.
I have an 80, 80, 80, yeah, 80 2020 XLR and it goes into a
Behringer mixer that's quite small.
It's a compact one because I don't need a lot of options when I'm, uh, controlling
everything up here, it does everything I need it to.
And then that goes into the PC, uh, we're on similar setups.
I know that Wolf has a similar setup.
I believe for tier and metal have the exact same set of I do and smiler Alders.
And smiler Alders.
And I have an 80 2020 USB as well.
I have a pop filter too.
I don't know if that counts, but that's there.
And my schnauzberries tastes like schnauzberries.
Kick rags.
Also high molar.
Hello.
Hey.
They said kick you rags.
Kick me?
You gotta make an oof.
You gotta make a big old wolf sound.
Angry wolf.
An angry wolf sound?
I don't know if I've ever done that.
I guess it would be a growl.
I don't know.
No, I don't know if I've got it in me.
I'm not really, I'm not that, I'm not that angry.
It's okay.
It's just, it's just a meme.
Can't be angry at a meme.
You can handle it.
Uh, movie bob?
I'd rather floss out my urinary tract with salt encrusted barbed wire
than listen to one more of that massive orphan's page long sentences again.
Salt encrusted barbed wire?
Oh my God.
I actually felt it.
Salt encrusted barbed wire.
To be fair, that's a, that's a candy and effort.
Um, but yeah, that, uh, there's no fucking way.
I would go for that instead of listening to one page long sentence from movie bob.
I just have different preferences.
I know everyone is subjective.
I know, but, uh, yeah, that's, have you seen Sargon of Akkad's video
on the politics of Starship Troopers?
I don't normally watch him, but it's the best video on Starship Troopers on YouTube.
I mean, it's very good video.
I really wanted, I've said this before.
I really want him to discuss Starship Troopers with red letter media
and it's never going to happen, but the takes are so different
and I want to see what happens on which side would reconcile information or not.
You know what I mean?
I don't know if it would come to an impasse or something, but yes, uh,
I quite enjoyed his video on Starship Troopers.
I find it all very interesting.
The discussion on Star Trek Troopers as a whole.
I mean, we get to look at women.
That's true.
It's true.
That's Star Wars.
What's a wahmen if you can't look at her?
Yeah.
Um, yeah, we, there was a bit of Star Wars girl echoing throughout,
but I think we nailed most of it.
It's fine.
It's all right.
It's all right.
Moolman, the channel a start has got hacked.
He makes super high quality animations that you should check out.
I actually essentially have now because there was a meme video
that was essentially that just with all of our faces on top of it.
So technically I've seen that a status video or at least that one.
Yeah.
There are only a minute each.
You should bring attention to them and help get his channel back.
Is he still not got it back?
I would assume it would have been solved.
But let me, let me check because I know another,
I think major kill was another one that kind of both Warhammer channels,
which is kind of weird, but let's see.
Um, I mean, the channel name is still coyo about.
Um, yeah, I don't know.
I hope that, yeah, I can't say I assume that it is because it, um,
because the channel name is different.
But nothing like all the videos are there.
It doesn't look like any community posts have been made.
Oh, no, no, no, no, no.
Yeah.
There's the, uh, the whole truth about the star test incident is in this post.
You fools once accused this guy that he steals the channels.
Channels are stolen by an organized group of hackers,
which of course you will never catch.
What do they do with hack channels?
Correctly sell it.
Mr. Crazy is just one of those who legally bought this channel.
By the way, if the real owner of this channel gets in touch,
then Mr. Crazy is ready to consider a deal with him.
This guy, um, uh, okay.
They hold channels ransom.
What a disgusting piece of shit.
Who would do that?
What a terrible thing to do to somebody.
Wow.
Well, remember, Rex, there are no bad tactics.
Only bad people to throw them out.
Bad targets.
Movie ball would approve of that as long as you do it to the right people.
Man, some people are just fucking disgusting.
Little bit. Yeah.
Um, I don't think you read my last super chat massive.
Why, why do people do this to me?
Like if, look, if ever I don't read the chat, don't set another one.
Say, go read it.
Just say what you said.
Now I got to figure out if this is from,
because I haven't missed any from today or the other day.
And I, you don't understand how many pages I've got to load and control
left just to find if, and then I don't even know if it's the right one or not.
It just, just it's, I, it just next time.
If I miss it, if I miss a super chat for any reason,
it maybe it was blocked.
Maybe it was retracted.
There's a couple of those that get that treatment.
And obviously I just don't read them out because, you know, there's nothing to read,
but, um, just, uh, just throw in the thing in the thing and then I can read it out.
Mueller, I'll eventually get you to say the N word.
Maybe not today or even next D fat, but mark my words.
I will you.
Oh, nooga.
You're not going to get me with that one.
Also women bad.
Please go home.
I can't, I can't wait until the lore expands and Mueller says the N word.
I mean, I gotta get permission off C3PO.
Who's going to, yeah.
Are you going to say it first or C3PO?
I love that be very staring at it on the knife and sweating.
Those Sith, they were evil.
Anna baby Yoda squeal.
Yeah, she's really into baby Yoda.
I think that's fair.
Also, yeah, we got another, um, episode coming today.
I believe.
Oh, should be out in like 10 hours or so.
I think very nice episode of bat.
Warming or Mandalore.
Yes.
No, actually, Batwoman's not out now until December 1st ranks.
Yeah.
I thought I, I'm so sorry.
I thought it was on hiatus.
Another week.
Also, um, Jay Longo said she won't be covering crisis on infinite earths.
I was like, fuck that.
We're covering it.
Yeah, boy.
We're not going to know what the hell's going on and nothing will seem any different.
And if it's, if it leaves on a cliffhanger and we find out that you have to watch like
episode, whatever superwoman to know what happens to Batwoman is a good chance we might even do it.
We've got to keep in continuity with our favorite character, Batwoman.
Otherwise, what the fuck are we?
Let's be honest.
What if it makes more sense than any of the other shows?
Or any of the other episodes?
I mean, maybe it will.
I don't know.
It's going to be exciting.
Maybe it will.
Death is the sequel to life only if you see it.
I think that should have ended with if you interpret it that way.
Yeah, I think so.
I get the message, though.
If that interrupted me when I was actually fapping.
Oh, I mean, it should only encourage, I think you should be fine.
Instant.
First super chat.
Submassive.
Ever read the Republic Commando books?
No, I'm afraid.
No, I have not.
D plus should do a live or animated series on those under the legends banner.
Use the books as a screenplay targeted at adults.
I mean, there's nothing they can't do, really.
We'll have to see.
Yeah.
Work and adult Star Wars like a like a porno.
I mean, why not go for a Disney plus do it?
Yeah, do all of the things.
You never know what will work.
Can we outlaw the the accent?
I can't stand Morley Blob.
I don't think you can outlaw the Boston.
The Boston accent is not outlawable.
I'm afraid Boston.
Yeah, Morley Blob, though.
Morley Blob, Morley Blob, Morley Blob.
Wolf Ray is better character than anyone from Lord of the Rings.
Change my mind.
XD.
JK.
I love Lord of the Rings.
Just want your reaction.
But to say, I think you change it with a golf club.
You hear he'll be upset by that.
But I'll try and read it out for him the next time he's here.
Like I said, I've got all these questions.
I've even looked at this one.
Gary, say baby girl is a naughty girl.
That's for dude Rotic.
Whenever he comes back on here.
How awkward that's going to be.
Gary requires it.
You know, with all the people who watch Star Wars and all that,
there is at least one person who thinks that Ray is a better character
than anyone in the Lord of the Rings.
Someone out there who believes that.
Law of what is it?
Pose law or Murphy's law.
Whichever one means the law.
No, no, if it can happen, it's law is that just because
if a woman tells you that you were wrong,
this confirmation you were right all along.
It's pose law.
I think it's Murphy's law.
Murphy's law is anything that can go wrong.
You mean like law of averages or anything that can go.
Oh, you're right.
I mean, we could we could apply that because that would be something going wrong.
Law of numbers.
No, I just mean if someone concluded that Ray was better than every character
in Lord of the Rings, that would be an example of something going wrong.
That would be going wrong.
But I don't think I don't think that's how people really use work as well.
You really impress raw with that golf club thing.
That's bullshit.
Golf club thing?
Yeah, I was saying like somebody said Ray is a better character
than all the Lord of the Rings characters change my mind.
I said, well, Wolf would probably want to do that with a golf club.
True.
He's in a golf club.
No, he hit the guy with the golf club until his mind was changed
about Ray being better than Lord of the Rings characters.
Oh, yeah.
So this one just says he would just become Jenny at the foot of the snow.
Jenny at the foot of the snow?
Yeah, I'm not sure what to make of that.
These out of context, if app comments, you know, I don't know what to say.
S N S N O W.
I don't know.
Maybe it's snowing where Jenny lives and he's letting
us know I'm I have no idea what that means.
The Twitter mob are going to call you guys red pilled racist sexist
for talking about something other than the video.
You utter massives.
I was just saying like if movie Bob tweets this stream out,
who's going to give a shit?
You know, we're not going to care.
We just are just not going to give a shit.
No, just not going to give a shit.
Finally started reading a game of Thrones for the first time.
Didn't see the show, but know all the spoilers.
300 PG in or pages in good so far and grateful.
The chapters are short.
I hope you enjoy it.
Have fun.
Wasn't that a meme where like people who read the book
could tell the red wedding was coming and people who watch the show.
You could tell they didn't read the books.
And then there was like subreddits discussing the show from a book perspective.
And then the book people eventually were like, yeah,
we don't even know the cheats anymore.
This is going to be great.
Everything's new now.
And look how that turned out.
It's going to be fun.
It wasn't.
Spoilers.
It was a fucking disaster.
It was.
Diabeto is an Avengers level threat for certain.
Yep.
I hope they take him seriously, man.
Like it's going to be a really good movie when it comes out.
I am personally looking very much forward to it.
Did you see how many donuts he can float?
Dude, it's fucking over, dude.
Remember that piece of art with like all those people he's floating?
Like that's like a hundred people or some shit.
It's pretty impressive.
Yeah.
I'm guilty to the power itself.
I mean, all right.
Whoa.
Two women to look at someone called Major Lee.
Oh, I can't believe Major Lee refused to debate.
Uh, he's in gamers, man.
He's it.
Yeah.
Like they do this thing called common ground.
No, I think there's two episodes of it, but I think they want to do more where
Jeremy will allow like the people who hate him the most to come and talk to him
personally through Ryan, like he contacts and get it all sorted out.
And apparently they invited Major Lee and he refused.
When was it going to talk about?
Well, the fact that Major Lee made a video on the fandom menace, right?
So I think that they were going to talk about that, I guess.
I don't really know.
Oh, I see.
I just went to his channel really quick.
Okay.
But yeah, I just find it kind of amusing that like I would have thought he'd want to, you know.
Bob tweeted an hour ago in response to someone telling him he was being roasted.
Really?
Let's have a look.
See good.
Oh, good.
Imagine how long it would take to roast someone of his size.
How could you say such a thing?
Inside would always be fucking raw.
That's fucking true, that is.
Let's see, two hours ago.
That's probably too late.
Where's the Bob sauce?
I'm actually looking for the Bob sauce.
Red pill alt right in cell Nazi misogyny podcast of the women hating division.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh, 13 hours.
I've gone too far.
No, no.
Oh, someone's I just saw this as somebody's saying that feel when you would definitely
not into eugenics as a sort of thing.
And I guess the tweet is, I prefer to simply see it in terms of natural selection in the new era of
intellectual slash creative fitness.
That's what Bob said, and he said natural selection is the opposite of eugenics.
You can't get more opposite than we should manipulate breeding in order to control population
development than natural selection.
I even invoked both Nazis and present day Nazi sympathizers on the other side to clarify this.
Bob, you're not escaping the fucking comments you've made previously.
Good luck with that shit.
Good luck with that shit.
Your vile hatred brought you full circle.
Well, I mean, you wouldn't think it's funny because he's round.
You wouldn't think he ever thought you would escape it.
He would have thought the way he hit said that shit that he'd be like, well, yeah,
he's like, Oh, maybe I shouldn't defend eugenics.
The greatest look in history.
He was like, No, I I I movie Bob, I cannot be wrong.
Um, yeah, maybe I'm missing it.
I'm just looking for a new Elon Musk.
All right.
Well, oh, my God.
He's he's recently released merchandise for big picture.
Oh, that even be shirts come in sizes extra, extra large.
It's just extra, extra, extra.
It's just the logo, the big picture on a T-shirt.
Why would anyone buy that clever?
So you can identify your fellow allies when you're out in public.
Comrades.
Yeah, so you can hate the poorest together.
Um, so someone said at the movie, Bobby being roasted as a meme on Efep right now.
And he said, Oh, that's nice.
I'm keeping a family member company overnight in hospital while they recover from surgery.
So I suppose we all had important priorities this evening.
That doesn't work, Bob.
Yeah, that would you are literally had something else to do in place of it.
And you can't guilt trip us after the shit that you said on fucking public.
You can't get away with that shit.
Not gonna work.
Not gonna work.
You had you would have had seven billion chances not to pull that card before.
That's a you know, in all seriousness, I hope the family member is okay.
But fuck movie Bob.
He's a piece of shit.
He's also feeding orphans and collecting boulders.
Yeah.
And besides, the memes were very positive.
We made him a super villain, but still super.
Yeah, it's odd.
He wanted all along to be a super person and Uber Minch.
And we gave him a really fantastic sleeping solution.
And he advocates the genocide of people who think differently.
And then he's like, Hey, I've got a family member in hospital.
You're like, what?
Nice fucking try.
There's those pesky Nazis gave eugenics a bad name.
Anyway, Wilford Brimley is the real Diabeto.
I love Wilford Brimley's name, because saying it well, sort of speak because
we talked about Wilford Brimley.
We'll listen tomorrow.
The origin story.
The origin story is where Bob comes across Wilford Brimley in like a cave somewhere,
training and medicating with the diabetes powers.
And he passes it along to the new generation.
Wilford will obey you now.
Wilford taught him everything he needs to know.
We'll listen tomorrow, as always.
Thanks for the content makes working out in the cold a little bit easier.
Also for Anna, the warriors suck.
Oh, my.
Oh, my goodness.
Warriors.
Are they like a sports ball team?
I don't know.
Or is that a TV show?
Yeah, maybe it's a TV show.
How could I possibly know the answer to this?
Did it really suck?
Well, yeah, I mean, you know, would a super chat lie?
I don't think so.
Sounds like the plot of Dracula untold.
I'll tell you, Dracula untold is a fucking masterpiece.
A masterpiece of cinema.
Movie Bob approves of its themes.
Movie Bob records the way he does because it just takes whatever
half sentences sound fine and snap to previous everything.
He can get back to eating in two hours.
Oh, it's the laziest form of audio editing you do.
Yeah.
If you notice as well, he cuts himself off too early.
A lot of the time on his videos, his sentences, like the words,
like say, for example, that the word words, you have that, like, right at the end,
he'll cut the cut it off in the S in the S and he wouldn't fade it or anything.
So just cut and you're just like, oh, because they just they're just rough cuts.
I've always kind of been an advocate of people on YouTube, really everywhere.
Just kind of talking like they talk normally.
Not, you know, take out the pauses and the stutters and, you know, misspeaks like that.
But in terms of your cadence and the way that you speak and the pacing, that sort of thing,
just talk like you normally talk, putting on fake voices or trying to artificially speed it up or
edit it to where you're cutting yourself off.
Don't cut yourself off.
That's dumb.
Don't edit.
Don't don't go through extra trouble to cut off yourself.
They'll probably like they probably say, like, it's my style.
You'd be like, stop it.
Well, stop.
Just agree with your style.
But if I slow down, they could understand what I'm trying to say.
Well, we can't have that because then we would actually be able to understand what he's saying
and then we might have to respond.
Can't have that.
People are listening, not watching or paying attention.
Good enough.
Robot had put out tweets about that hair drying robot.
The one that's got a hair dryer face, whatever.
He's like, good luck becoming popular with baby Yoda around.
Yes, very true.
Anyway, yeah, I believe the condition movie blob has it has is called diarrhea of the mouth.
Also high bags and wall off.
Hello.
Wall off would say hi.
Jay fucking long bone.
She's got very funny videos.
This is true.
Yes, she does.
Check them out.
It's great.
Fantastic.
Diabeto's one weakness is insulin.
Yes, as the meme pointed out, doctor.
I forget what it was called.
The one that rags didn't laugh at.
Doctor.
Yeah, it was the insulin meme.
Oh, doctor.
And and so on.
Yeah.
And ceiling or ceiling.
Well, finally, find me a pack of degenerates and send them all to my rooftops because it's
a fat time.
Glad this will keep me up all night and turn my sleep cycle nocturnal again.
The other way around just doesn't suit me.
Apparently, Ras nocturnal.
Why would a sun god be nocturnal?
I was about to say, well, it's sun for the people on the other side of the planet.
Does it?
Oh, like, okay.
Why would he be nocturnal?
Why would he sleep?
Why would he sleep?
Well, while the sun's gone, I mean, you might as well sleep.
I mean, the sun's up.
You got stuff to do.
You're the sun god.
But if the sun's away, you're sleeping, you're resting.
And when you get up, you'll bring it back again.
You know what nocturnal means, right?
It's the opposite of that.
Say what?
What are we talking about?
If Ras nocturnal, he doesn't sleep at night.
He's awake at night.
The sun's all it's going to be up on the other side of the planet.
So he's sort of nocturnal because it might be dark for them.
But for us, you know, hey, we got sun.
They got sun.
We got sun.
You know, I completely agree.
Mm.
No, just a little bit between us and the sun.
That's the issue.
Yeah, but when he says he's going to be nocturnal,
that means he's going to be awake during the dark,
which means he's not going to be on the other side.
Of the planet where the sun is.
Is his dark.
Is his dark.
Is he sleeping during his dark?
That's fine.
He's not going to be awake.
Well, he's got shit to do.
Yeah, but as a sun god.
Drive across the sky.
Right.
You're not making sense.
Yeah, but no, I am.
No, fuck you.
No, fuck you.
I am making sense.
We'll leave it to chat to vote.
Did rags make sense?
One for yes, two for no.
Obviously, one is the number of the count
and the number of the count shall be one.
I feel like we need to bookmark straw poll.
Bookmark straw poll.
I feel like it'll be a landslide.
Literally all decisions will be settled by popularity.
Absolutely.
And the stars are like suns.
So now what?
Can't see all the other sons if the big sun's out.
I don't think that's how that works.
You're a god.
You think sun god's going to be blinded
or hindered by his own son preposterous.
Are you saying his son can't blind a sun god?
Is that shitty of a sun?
Uh, no.
I'm saying he's better than his own creation.
I'm seeing.
You can't blind him.
Way more two's than one's.
It's almost explicitly one's.
It's actually almost all one's.
Does that mean?
In fact, I haven't seen a two yet.
The twos have it.
Very interesting.
The twos definitely don't.
There's, I haven't even seen a two yet.
This makes total sense if you can,
if you remember that the sun god, right?
He's got to be, he needs to sleep while the sun's somewhere else.
Sun doesn't go away.
Doesn't disappear.
So yeah, but you're a strange man, right?
Then he wouldn't.
Oh man, man's got to sleep.
Oh, this is an interesting one for me to read out.
My name is Mauler and I love TLJ.
The themes are great and I really enjoyed what they did too.
Luke's character.
Don't listen to me if I say otherwise.
Hmm Amen.
Don't know what that means.
Anyway.
Hey, I'm a long time viewing before Efap started.
Seeing all the memes grow and stuff has been great.
Thanks for offering hours of distractions from my horrible self doubt and loneliness.
Oh, happy to do that for you.
Glad you enjoy the memes.
Yeah, the memes are really great.
We have the best memes though.
We only, we only facilitate the memes.
Pop memes.
We don't like create the memes.
Yeah, we kickstart memes.
Just provide the clowning and then they provide the talent.
Wolf, you're working on writing a new book, right?
Good luck, my dude.
I'm writing my Facebook and it's been such a journey.
Also, Hi Rags.
Hello.
He is working on his new book.
Yeah, he's working away on it.
And he's also working on YouTube videos as far as I'm aware.
Cool.
So when you make it sound like he's written books before.
Yes, he did.
Iridescent was his first book, I believe.
I didn't know that.
That's cool.
It is no longer perchaseable, but it did exist at one point.
The law of Yuki had a fat boy with the power to change sugar into electricity.
Oh, we have a new, we have a new diabetes based economy.
Yeah.
Fucking people in Sharpie and like, you're like nine hours behind on super chats.
Guys, I'm aware of this.
What do you want me to do?
Nine hours?
Well, I mean, they're being hyperbolic because this stream just hit nine hours.
So it's pretty impossible for that to be the case.
But, you know, it's fine.
It's fine.
Well, we're doing what we can.
Is insulin, diabetes, kryptonite?
Yes.
There's some not even know.
No, get it away.
This is why we don't get all the videos every 10 months.
No, it's not.
More stuff on the way.
Okay.
I used to watch a movie, Bob, but the constant virtue signaling combined
with pretentious rambling wore me down.
What exactly was the appeal?
Like, what was the part that was like, well, there's this, you know?
Well, I'll hang around for some reason.
Well, he's he's talking like this is something.
Like, I remember him being pretty awful early on.
He didn't do the virtue signaling quite as bad, but his takes were really terrible.
There was like he was talking about one movie and saying how it was totally fine
because it was camp, even though the whole thing was garbage.
And then another movie, he said it was garbage and he didn't use the camp excuse.
And it's kind of seemed like he was favoring one movie genre and giving
it the gift of the camp tag to completely dismiss how terrible it was.
And wait a minute.
Are you saying that he was inconsistent?
I think I am.
Was he handing out the camp tag?
Like people hand out theme tags?
Oh, my God.
Kind of.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He kind of seemed like it.
But then the virtue signaling happened and it just got worse.
Oh, no.
Yeah.
Isn't it isn't it crazy that you were on our stream with Onision last year?
That is crazy.
Oh, yeah.
That is crazy.
Didn't you like totally dig into Onision while you were there?
Rags did, yeah.
Yeah, he's a piece of shit.
You just took the opportunity.
You also didn't let the opportunity go down to dig into Monday bat, too.
We let anyone get away with anything.
No, that chick was there.
That chick.
No, but he's nice.
It's like, what the fuck do you mean?
Oh, Monday, man, he's nice.
Like, no, he actually kind of sounds like a prick.
He's well, what he did wasn't very nice.
I think we can all agree on that.
He did was a terrible thing.
Let's see out.
Let's check out his YouTube channel.
See how he's see how he's doing.
Uh, yeah, it's legit.
What's raw?
It can't be nine hours.
I started streaming nine hours and three minutes ago, and I've already read
like a lot of Efap 61 chats.
It can't be nine hours ago.
It might be like the best you'll ever be is like eight and a half or something,
but it can't be nine.
Do you have a ballpark for what we have left?
Do you really want to know?
So it says here that Matt Jarbo's last video two days ago,
uh, death stranding should be disqualified from the game awards.
But okay.
Why is it because it came out too late?
He says, um, let's see.
Uh, I take ethical issues with just how many nominations
Hideo Kojima's death stranding has received.
Um, let's see.
Joff Kaley, and now who announced the nominees and Kojima have been BFFs for years.
And while Joff claims, he says, uh, he has no say in the nomination process.
The advisory board picks the gaming journalist outlets that will choose which games get nominated.
I fee it feels like a massive conflict of interest in one that would have been a highlight,
a high profile controversy during the height of gamer gate 2014.
So yeah, Matt thinks that, uh, death stranding should be disqualified from the game awards.
It should not be able to win anything, I guess.
And he's basing this off of like influencers, like maybe being biased or something.
Here's based on what I wrote out.
Yeah, so I don't know.
Oh my goodness. He talked about Donald Trump Jr.
floundering on the view.
That's a low score, even for Matt.
Two weeks ago, he did an orange man's son bad.
He, he sided with the view.
Well, then he made you say low scores down votes high.
Yeah, he's got two orange man bads in the last in his last little thing.
Wow. He's, uh, can't believe he's still doing this.
Ross like, Oh, it's 8.5 hours, not nine. Oh, okay.
That's all I was trying to say.
You said it was nine hours when the stream had only barely hit nine hours.
It's not physically possible.
That's what I was trying to say.
I don't fucking know what specific time it is.
These aren't timestamped.
Um, but yeah, you, you gotta remember, by the way,
there's more super chats at the beginning than there are as the stream goes on.
Right. So it's like, it's not like.
If it took half an hour to read the first selection or whatever,
the every selection runs that way, you know, it's always different.
It takes you in different times, but we'll get there.
Um, diabetes parents died in the jello cost.
Oh, the jello cost.
Yeah. Took many lives.
Matt told us that his favorite Indiana Jones movie is temple of doom,
but his favorite movie is the last crusade.
His favorite movie is the last crusade, but his favorite Indiana Jones movie is temple of doom.
Doesn't make any sense.
All right.
I'm sure he stopped that out very well.
Howdy, Muge Lord.
Hello.
Hi, ragolds.
Hello.
Wolf's stuff.
I'm sure you would say hi.
I started reading the Witcher books, but I'm kind of confused by the order.
Does the last wish come before blood of elves moles boob.
Watch the last day bender.
I am I'm set to do that.
It'll happen.
And as for the question about the Witcher books,
just Google it.
There's gotta be people who would answer that.
Like wolf might be able to answer it, but obviously he's not here.
But I don't know.
Google shall have the answer.
I do not know the answer to your question.
I'm sure somebody has said the same thing.
So you'll find it.
Did anyone?
Did anyone say cat man yet?
I don't know.
Did I?
I don't think so.
Catman.
Catman.
You catman.
Have we seen cat man?
No, I'm not.
Catman do.
More have been watching Buffy and I gotta say it sucks
because Angel is clearly an Edward Cullen ripoff.
Fucking Angel was made before Twilight was written.
Also, Zander is a lesbian, but that's not
possible.
There's restrictions in place that would prevent that.
No joke, he really did.
It's on the video.
Did you call Matt out on that?
Did you be like, hey Matt, this doesn't quite make sense?
I don't know.
Yeah, like Matt.
I don't know, man.
Some here.
Some here I heard right.
I feel like you don't know.
Two women on Efap?
Seems like I got some looking to do.
Yes.
Yes, indeed.
Follow the teachings of Mr. Lee.
You guys should read Movie Bob's book.
Puts a lot of things into it.
Movie Bob has a book.
Oh, I almost forgot he does have a book.
Yeah, it was something about like being the best at YouTube
or some shit.
It was pretty bad.
Yeah, it was something about being a celebrity on YouTube.
Something along those lines.
I don't have the exact title, but that's what it was about.
In essence.
Um, I have a free one.
It's yours now.
Thank you.
I'm so glad I'm not the only one who loves Scooby-Doo
and Zombie Island.
Loved that movie.
As far as I was aware, a lot of people like Scooby-Doo
and Zombie Island.
It's really good.
It's my favorite of them all.
I remember being my favorite.
Billy destroyed him after he said that.
Yeah, that seems like it would make sense.
Poor Matt.
Poor Matt.
Let the rhino milk consume you.
Also, high rags.
Hey.
I wonder if Movie Bob appreciates in his tweet
while he's a white dude talking about how the future he is owed
being stolen from him and the class of people he holds
responsible.
Horseshoe theory for the win.
I don't even...
Movie Bob at this point, I don't even know what specifically,
like politically, almost seems like he's in his own world.
A lot of the statements he makes,
like I just feel like the left would just be like, dude.
Dude.
Ouch.
Dude.
Chill.
Ouch.
We don't say that shit, okay?
Scooby-Doo and Zombie Island was what killed the core premise
of Scooby-Doo.
I'm not sure exactly what you mean by that.
Do you mean like it changed up the formula?
Yeah, say that one more time.
Scooby-Doo and Zombie Island was what killed the core premise
of Scooby-Doo.
Oh.
I'm...
Okay.
Well, it made a new premise.
That was amazing.
Maybe they're just referring to the fact that the monsters
were real?
I mean, is it the fact that it's like a different formula
in that?
Because it's like a movie, right?
Yeah, it was a movie.
Yeah, absolutely.
It was not like an episode because I remember it.
I guess, yeah, it just it changes up how Scooby-Doo works
as a formula, I guess.
Maybe what maybe his takeaway is monsters are actually real,
so they could be real later.
And that kind of bugs him.
Maybe, yeah.
I thought the whole point of Scooby-Doo is that all that people
are the real monsters.
Yeah, and I think when they become actual zombies
that they can't pull a mask off of.
According to chat, those earlier examples of real monsters
go in the show.
So maybe it was like the structure of how the episode
plays out.
I don't know.
I really liked the Scooby-Doo in Zombie Island.
And I don't know about the, I don't have too much care
and investment in the Scooby-Doo formula, you know?
Well then.
I thought it was great.
Also, Rags, love your TLJ review.
Well, thank you.
When will TFA be done?
It will be done next week.
I thought it was August 2020 for the next part.
We talked it, yeah.
Oh, there you go.
Great Todd Phillips movie is due date with Robert
Donnie Jr. and Zach Galifianakis.
They go on a car trip across the country to see Robert's
kid's birth.
I've seen it.
I found it pretty funny.
It's like having Tony Stark stuck in a buddy cop movie
with a fucking annoying idiot.
Oh, it sounds like a remake of Planes, Trains,
and Automobiles.
Kinda.
It's definitely its own thing.
It's just that I find it pretty amusing.
Yeah, I guess Todd Phillips made it.
All right.
I haven't seen it in a while, though.
Also, thank you, DP.
I hated Scrappy as well.
Kill that little dog.
Just kill that little dog.
Peek meme hood.
The Hex Girls are part of the lore.
Oh, we're just discussing the Hex Girls.
Oh, no.
Like sex girls.
So who, wait, who are the Hex Girls again?
Where are they from?
Oh, God.
I explained it again.
Okay.
Oh, sorry.
I don't actually care enough to put you through a list.
The Hex Girls are okay.
Well, the Hex Girls, they're a band of three young ladies
named Thorn, Dusk, and Luna.
And they appeared in Scooby-Doo and the Witches Ghost.
They're a band of the Hex Girls.
They're going to put a spell on you.
Gotcha.
Because I heard somebody asking which one you'd bang.
And I'm like, I don't even know these people.
Thorn is the correct answer.
Thorn is the correct answer.
Was that the guy with the black hair?
Yes.
Okay.
Is Rags Efap Scooby-Doo?
I don't know.
Well, there you go.
That is dead.
I don't think I could eat that much.
All right.
Get some of the devil's lettuce in you.
Get that racially charged.
Oh, I guess you're the dog.
I guess you're Scooby-Doo, the group.
Boo Brothers is Peek Scooby.
Rags, you are scrappy.
Oof.
Wait, what?
Apparently Boo Brothers is Peek Scooby and Rags is scrappy.
I am not scrappy.
Take that back.
You piece of shit.
It's the worst thing you can call the guy.
I was going to say, that's quite a personal insult right there.
That goes right to the heart.
How about you go turn around and smoke that on the way to the bank.
Nailed it.
Off a short pier.
Yeah.
I remember the Scooby-Doo movie where Shaggy turns into a werewolf
and he has to a Mad Max style race with other monsters in order to turn normal.
That sounds like the plot of a Scooby-Doo movie.
Yeah, yeah.
What are the old crazy ones?
Like the whole Scooby-Doo where he has to take care of all the little monster babies.
He's like a teacher at a spooky school.
Oh, school school, isn't it?
School school.
I think that's school school.
I don't feel like Shaggy has teaching credentials.
Well, that's because you're very racist and you think white people can't teach.
Shaggy's white?
Mm-hmm.
Oh, let me look up Shaggy's last name.
By the way, do those fuckers live anywhere or do they just live in the van?
I don't know.
Nobody knows.
Because it seems like they're always going somewhere
and then they stop at the mystery on the way to wherever they're going.
Where are they going?
So the real name of Shaggy is Norville Rogers.
Oh.
Oh.
Norville Rogers.
You guys remember Scooby-Dum?
Yes.
No.
Also, the movie was Scooby-Doo and the Reluctant Werewolf for that one you were talking about, Rags?
The Reluctant Werewolf?
Mm-hmm.
Apparently, there's Scooby-Doo.
Scooby-Doo's like, who is a, Scooby-Doo is Scooby-Doo's
movie star cousin when Scooby-Doo was remaking a film, maybe a long dead screen star, Milo Booth.
It seemed that Booth came back to life to put it into it.
It's a she.
It's a, this is, she's a, she's a movie star.
Um, I remember this.
I like that you go with Scooby-Pedia and it tells you all about these characters.
Personality.
Scooby-Doo is very sweet and kind.
Oh, that's it.
Scooby-Pedia.
Scooby-Pedia.
Yeah, you gotta.
Look, if the fan base exists, they will, they will do it.
There's a Scooby-Pedia.
Scooby-Pedia, that's amazing.
I'm glad the Scooby-Doo fan base have that.
We've been worshipping Ra on his rooftop all these months,
but we'll look really silly if this whole time he's been living in a bungalow.
I mean, if you threw someone off a bungalow roof,
it would still hurt like hell.
Probably wouldn't kill them though.
Maybe that's the reveal.
Ra never wanted to kill anybody.
Just wanted to hurt them.
Send them a message.
That's sort of a mob style, even though they also kill people a lot.
But seriously, really enjoying it.
But given the amount of vampire attacks and their lack of discretion,
the fact that all of Sunnydale is still oblivious to the least believable thing about the show,
they do address that a couple of times.
The people are more aware than we think.
And the bigger question is why haven't the government stepped in?
But then that also gets an answer in fairness.
There are addresses for that.
They try.
The wheel building needs a lot of work in Buffy though.
If a male orphan has a child, thus gaining dad strength,
do they risk breaking their own bones due to also having low bone density?
Oh my.
It's a tough question.
Dad strength.
Negative bone density.
Carry the one.
This isn't they have black hole bones.
I don't know if we have made them black holes.
Well, I guess that wouldn't be negative density.
That would be like super density would create an orphan black hole.
Mm hmm.
Jay Longbone is racist.
I convened with the council of color and they agree with me.
The council council of color.
She would have appreciated that.
That's great borrowing that.
Okay.
His origin story is that he went to a candy named our sweets or sweets.
His parents fell deep because Friar because he bumped into them then developed his powers.
I think this is supposed to be about.
Diabeto.
So his origin story is that he went to a candy.
He went to a candy named our sweets.
I think that's supposed to be candy store.
I don't know store his parents fell into in the deep.
In the deep just says in the deep because Friar.
The deep fat in the deep because Friar.
The deep cuz see you said like as if to say because you know in the deep because Friar
because he bumped into them then developed his powers.
So he accidentally pushed his parents into the deep
Friar for sweets and they died I guess and then he became powerful.
I can believe that movie Bob accidentally bumped into somebody else in a small confined space.
Yes.
I don't know why I don't I don't know what a deep fat Friar was doing at a candy store.
I'm just curious how the death of his parents provided
his powers and see how that works.
Were they caramelized alive?
Deep Friar.
How does he gain the powers?
That's the really important element to this.
Like I don't understand.
This is just a tragedy.
Like how do we know how if you don't know how to gain the powers.
The story's worthless.
I'm sorry.
It's just honesty.
I don't get it.
Yeah, I don't get it.
Love you Wolf.
Very kind.
This is the film that media outlets were convincing people not to go to for fear of
getting shot of course.
Course is a bit impressive.
It succeeded.
Yeah, I still think that it's absolutely reasonable to be impressed that this film
made over a billion dollars.
That's not easy for any film to do.
Yeah, any film making a billion dollars is impressive.
And I feel like he's fucking bitter about it.
He's like, it's a little impressive.
It is bitter.
It's an impressive movie.
That's why I'm glad.
He's like, yeah, of course it was going to make this movie.
It's just about this thing.
People would pay for it no matter what.
It's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Be salty and bitter.
Diabeto.
I've been foiled again by Joker.
Drat.
And then he like flies away.
Can I say this?
Can I say this?
This is the film that media outlets.
Oh, wait.
Sorry.
Wolf.
Which hex would you bone?
Oh, did he answer that?
I think, yeah, he said, uh, thorn thorn.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's an easy one.
That's a softball.
Also float that one over towards you.
Check out Ford versus Ferrari.
I've built cars and motorbikes from my old man, all my childhood.
And I thought it was based as hell.
Avoid the bitch boys.
Bitch boy takes from soy guys online.
And why it's problematic though.
If I fucking, if they tell me that it's misogynist,
because not enough women have speaking roles or some shit.
And be like, okay.
All right.
Just tell us beforehand what percentage of the show
needs to have a, have females speaking in the cast.
Just so we know what, what, you know, poof.
Me.
I think I have just enough time to clean my dorm,
finish my papers and go to bed at a reasonable time.
Oh, a new Efap.
Oh no.
Oh no.
You can do all those things while listening to Efap.
You'll be fine.
Just, you know, take a look at the screen.
Whenever a movie book says something.
Yeah.
This stream is great for when you're cleaning your place.
You kidding me?
Yeah.
Hooray.
Company.
Clean your room.
Hey guys.
Clean your basement apartment.
Likelihood is somebody's like doing some cleaning right now.
Well, like, I don't know.
They're playing this on a TV or earbuds or something.
So we're like in their ear while they're cleaning.
How does it feel to clean?
Feel good?
Yeah.
Sweet.
Sweet.
Sweet.
Sweet.
Sweet.
Sweet.
Sweet.
Gather that.
Yes.
Put it in the bin.
Oh, you're moving some stuff on the shelf, huh?
Yeah.
I'm watching you.
Use the spot.
Right now.
Now go back and get it.
Yeah.
Kind of left.
Not another spot.
A little bit further.
Yep.
Yeah.
I think you got it.
It's under there.
Yep.
That smell.
It's under there.
There.
Mm.
Smells like old Cheetos.
Oh no.
Glad you got that.
Glad you got take care of that.
It's very good.
Wait.
Ben wants to jump in, really?
Like why?
We'll just add some super chats.
He's from drug and peasants.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
What'd you reckon, Rags?
Yeah.
Go for it.
Why not?
Message me on Discord.
Just send me a message like hello and then I'll add you in.
Mysterio acted alongside Joker in Brokeback Mountain.
Oh my goodness.
Well, I mean, you know, I can't say they did a good job.
I have to say.
I'm sorry to jump ahead, but the the super chat doesn't hurt.
I think you broke that gossip.
Brokeback.
Oh, God, Rags, who's Christian Bale?
Was he a character in a knight's tale?
Christian Bale?
No, he was not in a nice tale.
Well, I mean, it's your question, Rags.
I wouldn't want to answer it for you.
I don't think Christian Bale was in a nice tale.
I'm not sure, though.
I don't think Christian Bale was in a nice tale.
I don't think Christian Bale was in a nice tale.
I'm not sure, though.
Let me double check.
Maybe I forget.
I would feel betrayed by my memory if he was in a nice tale.
I'm pretty sure he's not.
No, I just got Night of Cups.
The Dark Knight.
Night of Cups.
Night of Cups.
Psycho.
No, American Psycho.
Sorry.
American Fico.
Fanko.
American Fico.
I returned some videotape.
Ford versus Ferrari.
La Man 66 was really good, too.
Fair enough.
I mean, I guess I'll have to check out a lot of people saying it's good.
And God, if we need small fucking good movies for 2019, I'm just saying.
Yeah.
I'm not going to see it.
Looks like my dad said he was interested in seeing it.
So I might go and see that.
So they canceled Victoria's Secret Fashion Show
because of these fat blue head, same glasses, sludge monster.
Also, high rags.
Hello.
Let's take a look.
Victoria's Secret.
Go to news.
Officially canned after outrage.
What was the outrage?
Probably.
Damn, these attractive women.
Exactly.
All right.
Well, you know, a woman looking beautiful.
That's not right.
That's that is not a lot of rags.
Beauty is subjective.
You disgusting in the cell.
All women are ugly then.
Now what?
Well, now what?
Look what you've done.
You've ruined everything.
You have done.
Look at the worlds you've created.
Look Diabito upon your creation and despair.
This is the future you chose.
Our God is finally here.
Praise be the roofs.
You're a lot of fans there are.
This is just what I needed to get me through work.
Well, if you're still here, Andrew, I hope work is going well.
The black shading that Anna was describing about the hex skills
is why Spider-Man's legs are blue.
Originally, he was red and black with blue shading on the legs
to define the muscle and everything.
Oh, how about that?
It's not that the black was just really heavy shading.
It's racist.
What am I a comic nerd?
Like what did you take me for?
Well, it's just heavy shading.
Look blackhead hex skill with Velma on my face.
What?
Look blackhead hex skill with Velma on my face.
I like Velma is sitting on your face.
I guess so with the and then he's gunning for the hex skills.
He's getting for the thorn with Velma on the face.
All right.
All right.
Raven is Beth.
Raven is best goth crush hex skills.
Hold my beer.
Oh, I see.
Oh, yeah, from Teen Titans.
I have heard a lot of people like Raven.
Yes, I've not seen Teen Titans.
I'm afraid them.
Don't forget Scooby dumb.
Oh, yes, we did mention Scooby dumb earlier.
Yeah, just a moment ago, Scooby dumb.
Scooby Jew.
I remember that.
Yes, movie Bob.
I don't I was I don't.
Oh, I no idea.
It says movie Bob.
Rob, we're going to need a stronger roof.
Before Rock and throw, he just cracks through the roof
and he's the Rosick.
What the fuck is my house, dude?
It's like dropping a metal rod from space.
It lands and just the impact.
Cataclysm energy.
Current scenario.
That's why movie Bob whenever he wants, he can end the world
if he just jumps up and down.
Oh, that kind of power.
Oh, my goodness.
Knock us out of orbit.
Kill us immediately.
He just he's like, I'll end it all if we don't get.
If we don't get a eugenics like I want, I'm going to end it all.
If you don't kill these this list of people, I'm just going to kill everybody.
I'll step off my rascal.
Did someone say Scooby Jew?
See, that's the thing.
Now I can't get the depiction of that out of my head.
What would you rather than say, dooby doo?
I don't dooby doo.
Dooby doo, I tell you.
Dooby doo.
Yeah, fair warning, Ben.
A lot of these won't make any sense.
Don't worry.
That's fine.
I'm going to try to behave, too.
We've got reams of behave.
What do you mean?
This is the fact.
I don't know.
I'm trying to be a sweet boy.
I don't know.
We'll see.
We just got done talking about Scooby Jew and throwing people off of roofs.
Scooby doo.
Yeah.
Commonly known for roof throwing.
You're like, I don't remember that.
Yay.
At least we're known for something.
All I had to do on the internet was admit once that my DNA test showed one percent Jew.
And now everyone has pasted a luchador mask over all of these weird Holocaust propaganda photos.
Oh, my.
Well, you know, sometimes you walk yourself into these things, I guess.
Anyway, I wouldn't be surprised if movie Bob was a closet Nazi.
That man should never be under any circumstances, get any political power.
Yes.
Agreed.
But I don't think we should be fine on that regard.
Scooby doo and the angry Jew.
Let's see who this ghost really is.
Old man, Goldstein.
Good job for finding out who the monster was.
How for that we're going to give you a few Scooby shekels.
Old man, Goldstein, the guy who runs the local pawn shop.
I knew it was you, you best.
Got no way with it.
So we're going to be a dumb dog like a hot dumb dog.
Dumb dog.
I can't believe this.
You guys think that I ever got to Scooby after all those episodes being called a dumb dog.
Do you think he was ever like, OK, enough in you ever snapped and just ripped someone's throat out?
Could you imagine what it was like being compared to Marmaduke for your entire career?
Oh, yeah, rough.
Eventually just loses the speech impediment and talk some serious shit.
If Scooby was racist, would he hate riggers?
Oh, so riggers are like people who rig things up, you know, like sound.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Lighting fixtures, you know, really seriously, like Scooby is to Marmaduke.
What Heathcliff is to Garfield?
Well, Heathcliff.
Yeah.
Wasn't Heathcliff practically just a scrappy dude that actually did beat up things?
No, no, Heathcliff was Garfield only with a slightly different personality,
an orange cat that was fat.
Well, sure, in the looks department.
I see.
I see this here.
It only ran for about a year.
I mean, like he was he was like smarmy like Garfield, but then he like always beat everything up.
I don't know.
Yeah.
Heathcliff was like, I guess, a homeless cat when Garfield wasn't.
That was like the main difference.
No, this he wasn't part of the the.
Oh, the Cadillac cats.
Yes, different.
Yeah, that was the that was the junkyard cats that lived in the same universe as Heathcliff.
Why the fuck are they drawing these cats so sexy?
No, you know, like one of the Cadillac cats is like supposed is drawn like
supposed to be like really hot for a cat.
OK, he landed on never forget this week.
We had Adam from Your Movie Sucks on DP one time and he was telling me he was he liked he likes
cat men. So I was showing him thunder cats.
And I'm like, which thunder cat are you most attracted to?
No, that was kind of different.
Did he have an answer?
Oh, my Jesus Christ.
Not really.
I guess pan throw pan throw.
I can throw technically.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, making it making the choice is what you got to do.
Everyone's like, oh, right.
He's like, no, it doesn't look good.
Show cats is clearly supposed to be a sexy cat.
Proto fairy.
I'm just describing what the show is.
You disturbed all of chat rags.
Well done.
Why I didn't I didn't draw it.
I'll never forget the first episode of Thundercats because they're all naked.
Have you guys ever seen you guys remember the first Thundercats episode?
Maybe not.
I never watched that.
I was aware of it, but I never watched it.
I can't type in that's naked because I know, you know, they were all anthropomorphic
people, cats, but more towards the human side.
Right.
The first episode, they're all nude.
They they don't realize that belt and shoes.
Wow.
The kids.
Yeah, right there.
There you go.
No.
Yeah.
She Taro nipple is Chitara with no nipples.
That must be the peeps.
That must have been weird drawn.
Yeah, we're drawn.
I think it was anime animator.
It's the same animation team that did Thundercats or Silver Hawks rather.
Silver Hawks.
Silver Hawks.
I mean, they're wearing belts.
That counts as clothes.
It's fine.
They got those are accessories.
So how did we wind up here anyway?
Braggs taunting on sexy cats.
No, one of the one of the Cadillac cats his name is Cleo, as I've discovered.
I'm a sexy cat.
You need to watch.
So we clearly drawn to be a sexy cat.
And I just pointed this out because it's odd.
So apparently it makes me a bad person.
They go chat.
It was all to rags.
Okay.
Okay.
So we yeah, I just it's impossible to not notice.
Go to Google Google Cadillac cats.
Right.
And then you'll be like, oh, obviously I know exactly which one he's referring to.
So we've we've gone from Scooby-Doo to Heathcliff to sexy cats.
And all the way back to reluctant werewolf is the best Scooby-Doo film.
All right.
I love how someone found the photo of the naked cats.
And and they are all totally naked.
Yeah, they're just saying.
That I don't it's it's weird.
It is very strange.
Because like it like if they if they ever want to like fuck or jerk off or something
like that, like what where does it just like spring out or like in between?
Where what's going on?
Rags needs to know the answers to these questions.
Okay.
This is some deep lore we're diving into here.
Thanks.
Rags.
I got a virus now.
There's something wrong with the Cadillac.
Oh, you can't trick me into fairy sexy doggo.
I'm not.
Everyone's like, oh, you said that's like, no, look at it.
Like, look at the hips, man.
That was on here.
If you go look at the picture of the Cadillac cats.
This picture is actually a picture of a picture.
Very strange.
You got one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
There's seven cats.
I'll tell you what.
The leg warmers do it for me.
The leg.
Just the leg.
Yeah.
Just enough.
She's like Olivia Newton John, basically.
Oh, yeah.
Let's get physical.
That Xanadu looking sort of like what are you wear clothes?
No, just like warmers.
It's just enough clothes to acknowledge the rest of me is naked.
It's cool.
I got hair all over my chest.
You know, because she's wearing clothes in this one,
she's got this big pink coat and gloves.
She's got a leg warmers on, of course.
Leg warmers are still canon.
This is strange.
And again, I didn't make it.
I just point now that is weird.
All right.
I'm sure you've justified yourself to chat at this point.
I'm sure they don't think any less role or anything of you.
I'm sure no one thinks any lesser of me for pointing this out.
Thoughts on KK being Catherine Kennedy saying that the sequels were hard to make
because she had no source material expanded universe rules in its grave.
Thanks for making life great, guys.
Have a good fab.
Thank you very much.
And yeah, we've covered this a few times now, but really dumb.
And just because you have no source material doesn't mean
you can't fucking continue a story.
Holy shit.
I thought that's the whole reason these writers for millions of dollars
because they know how to fucking write.
Was that the woman in fan base that you guys pissed off?
Is that what that was?
No.
Cathy Kennedy is the like CEO of Lucasfilm right now, I think.
Okay.
They're talking about like how she's recently said that, you know,
Marvel has it easier because they have source material to work from
when that's Disney fucking nuked the extended universe or expanded universe.
So it's just like, how can you fucking say that?
What the hell?
And then it also implies like a lot of the films in the Marvel universe
like go off script completely.
Like you might be like, oh, but they still have something to work from.
It's fucking they practically made their own films.
And you know, a lot of people take issue with that.
Like some of the films take the names of some kind of comic story,
but then they alter it completely.
Right.
I'm just waiting for the Natalie Portman Thor film.
Right.
Yeah, that's because you know, that's going to be.
Natalie Thorman.
Natalie Thortman.
Scooby Doo meets the Jew brothers.
Oh, no.
Scooby Jew, but Hitler love dogs.
Oh, that's.
I'm surprised you were allowed to say Hitler in a super chat.
I thought they prevent that.
Oh, my goodness.
Wow.
Yeah, he got away with that.
Thanks.
Thanks, Google, for letting people reference historical figures.
How about how about Scooby Doo meets Harvey Weinstein and Jeffrey Epstein?
I mean, I think it can work Scooby Doo and pedophile.
I wouldn't have gotten away for it.
Take him down.
They could have if it weren't for them sneaking kids.
Yeah.
I mean, there's lots of stories to go.
I think it'll be a whole season's worth of stories here.
And I would have gotten away with it, too, if it wasn't for you meddling.
Yids.
Oh, I get it.
And of that Star Wars, Jeb and Jay Long.
Jeb.
I feel like that joke was already made.
All right.
And then was going to get them Jeb versions out there.
Scooby Doo in the Jew school.
I don't know if I saw that one.
Scooby Doo in the Syrian invaders.
A weekly effect.
What is this last?
Sorry.
What was the last picture that you?
What was the last picture Rags posted?
It was just one of the images where she was just getting like hand gagged.
Someone.
But it's from the show.
It gets weird.
Like the people who made this were clearly like,
I got to draw these ugly characters, but Cleo.
Oh, man, you have to draw her doing anything I want.
Get her manhandled hot when she gets kidnapped.
A weekday.
If what madness is this long, man?
How shall your audience sleep now?
You'll find a way when that.
You'll be able to sleep in three hours.
Yeah.
And yeah, we've got exactly two hours and 12 minutes.
We probably will not beat all the super chats by then,
but we should get pretty close.
Go go.
When that cold Bob hits.
I think it's rich.
The movie of all things.
He's some sort of uber mensch when he looks like he's been thrown into a gas chamber.
Oh,
vermidge.
He looks like he's a he looks like he is kind of a balloon person.
Like if you poked him, he would.
He would go and start flying around the room.
I mean, we did.
We did say Diabeto could fly.
So let's air out.
Off he goes.
So, right.
I'm going to read this and well, I just I'm going to read.
I'm going to read it as it said.
Right.
Do you suck toes?
Because I've got 10 little piggies that could use some mouth hugs.
Oh, my goodness.
No, I don't suck toes.
I'm so sorry.
I'll eat ass, man.
But I ain't going to put my mouth on toes.
Draw the line.
I got the line somewhere.
Oh, the next one just says.
Hi, Rags.
Hey, hello.
Hello.
Hello.
Have you ever gone in to eat the ass and then like the smell?
You turn like you welcome back.
And then you like did like a loop-de-loop and came back around.
Fucking joints.
Did you say that?
That wasn't really right.
Generally, it's just like a drag over the top.
You know, the pure timing you want to kind of get them in the shower.
So you could sort of.
Talking about talking about using that and interesting conversation.
Yep.
Don't worry.
Me and both terrified to.
Statement here is better.
You have better luck eating out guys than gals.
Is that effect?
Yeah, because at least in my experience, right?
You have a guy over here with you with you with a dude, right?
You know what's going on back there and you prepare.
You know, you know what's going on back there.
Someone's ass is getting is going to be going to be part of the action, right?
So they know to make sure it's all nice and looking good.
And, you know, you know, prim and proper, right?
You know, they they know they know.
Oh, that's it.
Oh, I can finally sleep tonight.
Oh, it's because it's because there's no other alternatives.
So they got to make sure it works.
Right.
Well, yeah, I mean, you know, it's like, you know, someone's getting fucked in the ass.
Right.
So you want it to, you know, is prep involved?
You want looking good and everything.
So you get down there and you're like, man, this is looking all right.
You've been doing some work.
All right.
I can see the logic.
Welcome back, Star Wars girl.
Mm hmm.
Welcome.
You go back to talking about.
All right.
Well, I asked the best question at the best possible moment.
Oh, I did not think I was going to walk into this conversation.
So when I first came in here, I'm like, I, I have to watch what I say here.
And Mahler's like, you're on eFAP.
I'm like, all right.
Let's go.
Let's go all the way, then, you know, we mentioned at the beginning
that this is not a kid friendly stream.
No, it's really not.
Oh, did you mark that?
Oh, we totally marked that.
Kids shouldn't be fucking watching the shake.
Oh, they should go watch Lord Genesis instead.
Yes.
Then then then run away in fear.
But, you know, any choice monster he's become.
Oh, my God.
Oh, his dad got interviewed the other night.
But, yeah, by police.
Really?
No, no, by by a live streamer.
His dad answered a random call from a live streamer.
I talked about a lot of stuff.
Oh, I don't know why.
But his dad seems like a pretty reasonable still an enabler,
but pretty reasonable kind of guy.
Oh, I'm sure he's probably someone who's like doing everything.
He's held hostage in the house.
Yeah, I mean, seeing as how senior Genesis turned out,
I kind of imagine he's an enabler.
Maybe Jared cast a spell.
You don't know what his power is.
You know what he could do.
He's a real man.
So this just says, Hi, Wolf.
And then the next one says, Scooby,
Juby, Jew, where are you?
Oh, no, you're in that part of the super chat.
And then it's gone for hours.
I know.
You know how long this takes.
I know.
Describes that as a Schindler's List sequel.
Oh, no, I don't think so.
I don't think there's less the musical.
I don't know if Spielberg will be on board,
but maybe producing.
I don't know.
He'd still be wrong because you talked Scooby-Doo.
I'm not sure that's referencing.
We got the good J on for once.
Also, hi, that Star Wars girl.
I forget her name.
It's Anna.
She didn't say hi back.
Damn.
It's a shame.
See Rags, you've created an expectation now
where people think they're going to get a high back.
But you know, sometimes it's not the case.
Sometimes it's not the case.
Juby-Doo.
Scooby-Doo meets Jooman and Robin.
All right.
That wasn't even clever.
You just said Joo instead of Bat.
I don't know, man.
All right.
Wouldn't it have been funnier to swap out Bads?
It was Bat Joo.
I don't know.
That'd be better.
You're saying her standards are sinking here.
If an orphan eats alone, is it a family meal?
No.
Depends on the definition from the piston providing the meal.
Like, you know, family.
If it means, like, everyone who's related to you in blood
and there's just you.
But like, most people don't go by any kind of definition like that.
It's usually like, yeah.
But if I go to bed, right?
It's not like all the family's taking a nap.
She's had it.
Well, I mean, if you were the only one in your family left,
maybe it is because they're with you in spirit
and they go to sleep with you, you know?
I'm not Ray.
Not all the spirits of the Jedi before me
are going to be there to sleep with me or whatever.
You don't know that.
I have no idea.
I don't even know it.
I don't even know what the rules are anymore.
I don't know that.
The rules are that there are no rules.
That's the big rule.
Clearly.
We've got fusion now.
Cancel culture is the inevitable endpoint of letting holes have a voice in society.
Facts.
Thanks, you're all.
Yeah.
Raw with the takes.
Scooby-Doo and the Jew invaders.
All right.
That's just a variation of the other one you did.
I see right through you.
Here's my free super chat money.
Thank you very much.
Also, an efap with Wolf and Jay Longbone and Anna and special guest rags.
What a wonderful surprise this is.
I know.
Oh, my goodness.
Very special guest.
Yeah.
When we started that up 9 and 10 hours ago, you know,
that was an interesting stream that that was.
Scooby-Doo and the cyber Jew.
Oh, Scooby-Doo and the cyber Jew.
Sorry.
I didn't want to misrepresent that super chat.
Scooby-Doo and the cyber Jew.
Michael Moore is a fat traitor.
And that is a quote from Diabeto.
Was, um, was Moogab like giving Michael more shit for liking Joker?
He gave him shit for saying.
It was the thing about Columbine.
I forget the specifics.
Oh, Scooby-Doo and the curse of the 13th Jew.
Oh, why the 13th one cast a spell.
But everyone knows there used to use the unlucky one.
Oh, there was a there was a Scooby-Doo Halloween special when I was a kid
called the 13 ghosts of Scooby-Doo back in the day.
That might be what they're referencing.
Maybe.
Yep.
Which show is crazier, Anna?
Efap or The Jack Show?
Um, probably The Jack Show.
Yeah, we're pretty tame here.
Everything's mostly normal.
Yeah, aside from the conversation I just walked into.
Yeah, it was a pretty normal conversation.
Everyone talks about that every day all the time.
It's fine.
You guys have yet to talk about cancer babies on Efap.
So I guess that's it.
Cancer babies.
Well, give it time.
We had an AIDS bus.
Does that come close?
The AIDS bus hit the orphans or something.
And they create cancer babies.
It's a simple formula.
At least your parents didn't have to watch you die young of cancer.
Oh, no, no, no.
Cancer baby lived.
It's a it's a thing actually.
Okay.
All right.
That's cool.
Happy endings.
Don't forget about Scooby-Doby-Dum.
He's the best.
Scooby-Doby-Dum?
Yeah, do they just mean Scooby-Dum?
There was a Scooby-Dum.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know Scooby-Dum's middle name.
I don't know that much of the lore.
Yeah, they were giving me.
To the worst full in order Jedi I have seen, but still love your content.
No more gay jacking with Jay.
Oh, they're talking about my stream.
In fairness, I was on the hardest difficulty.
I never played it before, but I was pretty bad.
I'll give it to you.
I was pretty bad.
No more gay jacking with Jay.
I didn't know I was gay.
That's where do you have cameras?
That's screwed up.
It shouldn't be, shouldn't be, shouldn't be commenting on such things.
Um, are they referring to the Twam stream?
I don't know.
Star Wars girl.
I heard you lack knowledge of the EU and I want to help.
EU stands for European Union.
Star Wars was filmed there.
It's embarrassing not to know this, but you know, life saved.
I didn't know it was filmed there.
Oh, hold on.
Hold on to is Tunisia and the European Union.
I think they're talking about the new films, how they were filmed in like Ireland and stuff.
Oh, but I did know that and I do know about the expanded universe.
So I don't think I'm lacking too much knowledge on it.
The only thing I'm lacking knowledge in is stuff about Revan, but that's because I was told not to
read the books because apparently the books are shit and to play the game, but I am notoriously
awful at playing video games.
So, uh, yeah.
Right then, uh, people like Baba, why kids like me got bullied worse after Columbine.
Tubby forgets people got typecast to the school shooters of a media.
Um, yeah, I wouldn't know.
I don't know if that actually happened.
Oh, they were probably Nazis.
It's fine.
Oh, what did he, what do you call it?
The natural selection of intelligence or something like intellectual fitness.
I don't even know what he means exactly by that.
Like, how does someone get knocked out of the gene pool through an intelligence?
Like in our society, that's not a thing.
Is it outside of if they accidentally kill themselves, which is not going to happen?
I don't think not for the amount that he wants.
Like the stupid people all killed themselves accidentally killed themselves.
Accidentally.
I like the idea that he says that we're just like this mysterious.
All of them have been shot in the back of the head.
He's like, yup.
It's weird.
They're dumb.
They're really stupid.
Those dumb people.
Now it's just up to a smart, dumb heart.
I mean, everybody would easily elect him as president.
He knows what's up.
He knows what he's doing.
And get off.
We trust is a thing that he actually has on his videos.
Oh, that's right.
He does.
He does have that.
I am God.
Bob.
No, I'm God.
Yeah, but God doesn't have to catch his breath every time he says it.
Okay.
This is how it's spelled, guys.
You, we are wise.
It isn't Sunday white.
Also, hi, ooh, wags.
Hello.
If the reason for a shooting was breathing oxygen, would they say breathing is bad?
Breathing is bad.
Breathing is not.
He's breathing.
Hitler did it.
Yeah.
Hitler drink water.
Yeah.
There's proof.
There's a video where he breathes.
I've seen it.
Fucking got him.
The Darwin awards are a thing, a hilarious and tragic thing.
Yeah, I know.
But you never get it.
So what he's after is like knocking out this enormous portion of like the American
population.
And he's like, ah, intellectual natural selection.
It's like, I don't think I don't.
Most people don't accidentally kill themselves regularly.
Like, you don't.
Yeah, most people aren't so dumb.
They kill themselves accidentally.
Sneaky, what the fuck?
Also.
Hey, J long bone.
Your hair has been on fire recently.
It's very true.
Friendly reminder.
Death to the aliens.
Hashtag humanity first.
Hashtag human supremacy.
Oh, my goodness.
I wanted to ask you guys something now that I have you all here.
Have you have you read the Timothy Zahn?
Star Wars novels?
Yes.
Okay.
Like that for me was the continuation after the original trilogy.
Did you read that?
I kind of wish ology.
I'm I'm not familiar with that.
No, I'm not.
No, I read like Dark Force Rising and like the trilogy that came after that.
Like, okay.
So, yeah, you should read the duology.
I actually think it's better than the trilogy.
It takes place 10 years after the trilogy came out.
It's really good.
It's called The Hand of Thrawn duology.
Did you ever read the the one where Luke finds the glove of Darth Vader and it like.
I read like, you know, because there was such a there was such a void of Star Wars content.
Forever between the original, you know, between the early 80s and the the prequels
that there was so much fiction being written at the time.
And I don't think they cared anything about continuity at all with it.
They were just kind of like whipping it out.
So there were so many series of novels that are now erased
simply by Disney acquiring the Star Wars property.
Yeah, it's insulting to everyone that put all that time in.
And I think one of the great things is that Timothy Zahn did,
because there was a series that came out in between.
Well, there's a few of them that came out in between his.
I hope I think you can just win.
She gone.
Oh, no, my tweaking out again.
Yeah, yeah, we lost you.
My Internet is shit.
But yeah, well, what did you do earlier?
You just cut off mid sentence.
What was the last thing I said?
Were you even listening, sir?
About the Timothy Zahn and then like that was lost.
Oh, he actually took the time to read the books that came out in between
when he wrote the trilogy and the duology.
So he adds in characters and he explains things that people freaked out about
because somebody wrote this stupid trilogy, which I mean, some people like it.
I'm not the biggest fan of it.
I don't think it was that great, but it's where Luke is training Jedi
and they're on, you know, the base in Yavin.
And one of his students, you know, gets this dark side inkling.
So to understand him and to relate to him, Luke taps into that dark side power
and people lost their minds like Luke is going to the dark side.
It's like, no, he just tried it to relate to the student
to make sure that the student wouldn't go to the dark side.
And it backfired all these people died.
But, um, you know, you're right.
That is the equivalent of that.
You're right.
Well, but he added it in and he answered all the questions and he fixed it.
So I was like, he did such a good job.
They should just have him write the movies.
But yeah.
Well, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay.
Fine.
They erased the EU, but look what we got in return.
Such great films.
If you directed a series of movies and there was a scene in the second movie
where one of the one of the characters got sucked out into the vacuum of space.
And at that point, the actor was already literally dead.
Why would you not kill them?
We all understood.
Yeah.
Like, yeah, I think I think that we would all come to,
but it would have been fucking shocking to be like, that's she's dead.
Wow.
Yeah.
I was like, finally, I was like, I was like, all right.
They're going to honor her this way.
They kill her off, like whatever.
And then they brought her back in.
I'm like, wait, you killed Harrison Ford already.
You killed all these people that are still alive.
Yeah.
One, the one original Star Wars actress that's gone.
Is the one you killed in the.
Yeah.
Like what?
Well, we've got to have we got to have Leia live and be amazing and incredible.
Fuck everyone else.
Well, she's the only like original series character.
They can't ruin.
Unfortunately, she's the only one that died.
The fucking I'm pretty sure Red let me to make that comment.
It's like such a fucking tragedy.
She's the only one who is left.
Technically, I've ruined.
She could fucking die.
If they can't ruin it because they protected her too much.
She was like too protected.
I mean, forget the fact she kissed her brother, right?
But, you know, outside of her.
I mean, the silence.
I thought everyone kissed their brother.
What?
Not everyone knows who my brother is.
Everyone settled down.
All right.
Please.
I know.
Well, I mean, have you ever heard it?
Have you ever heard a dianor before?
Are you familiar with dianor?
I am dianor.
Is he one of the Cadillac cats?
No.
I feel like I'm the only person who will get dianor.
Dianor?
Yeah.
Yeah, dianor.
Have you got a picture on the head?
You can show him that.
Do you?
Okay, Mahler, you know who dianor is, right?
Yeah, but.
Okay.
Should we show them the picture or what?
Yeah.
Well, yeah, I won't show.
Hold on.
Oh, my God.
This design stole sold and I can prove it.
This design sold 5000 t-shirts.
I believe that.
Okay.
Now.
All right.
You should give them give them the lore of how it happened.
Okay.
I want to see a picture of this t-shirt first.
Where is it?
Dianor?
There's a popular character.
Popular character on my show named Jim Ass,
who was totally not someone I know, who's not someone.
Jim Ass?
Yeah, Jim Ass.
Oh, I like how you're like.
Yeah.
Jim Ass.
The fuck.
Yeah.
I'll tell you what.
I'll tell you what.
Jim Ass was so notorious and his personality was so well loved and prolific that even till
this day, people think that Mr. Medeker is secretly Jim Ass, but he's not.
Well, now you just spoiled it.
No.
All right.
There you go.
I posted it.
So I want to let you all know this design and this is not a joke.
We sold 5000 t-shirts of that design on it.
Oh, is that a rim brand?
Yeah, let me get that on the screen for the...
A lot of people in this channel probably know it if they've watched Drunken Peasants.
Some of them might.
Like, I'm not even going to lie.
I think I would probably wear that shirt.
DINOR.
DINOR.
DINOR.
Yeah, DINOR.
The Trogdor.
Blarg.
It's...
What can we really say?
It's wonderful.
Yeah.
Thank you, Jim Ass.
I like how the DINOR looks like he's got a poop on deck.
That's about to explode.
DINOR's crowning.
Is that what you're saying?
He's horribly constipated.
Oh my goodness.
He has to take a fucking DINOR sized shit.
You know those massive piles from Jurassic Park.
Actually, the hilarious thing is Teespring thought a little kid drew that
and featured it on all their social media.
And they're like, oh, isn't this cute?
It's like, oh, yeah, this is cute.
Totally.
Taking a great big number, Toonor.
Toonor.
That's the meteor that hit the Earth.
Yes.
Anyway, so yeah, this is just the next Super Chat.
I read, like, there's no, you know, I'm just going to...
People are born Nazis.
That's what it says.
I don't know about that.
But, well, it's a quote, you see.
And it's a quote from Sinema Roberto.
Did he really say that?
That's the thing.
I can't tell what's a parody quote from him.
Yeah, I was going to say, I can't fucking confirm that.
He might have.
He's pretty close.
I guess for Anna and for Ben, we're going to play a game on a future Efap called,
Who Said It?
Movie Bob or Hitler?
And it's a bunch of quotes, and we have to decide whether or not Movie Bob or Hitler said that.
Well, we have to have Wolf on for that as well.
That'd be funny.
That'd be great.
Oh, for sure.
For sure.
So here's the thing, though.
If he says Nazis are born, does that mean being a Nazi is not a choice
and he shouldn't discriminate?
You shouldn't discriminate against him if it's not their choice, yeah.
Yeah.
Careful, Bob.
Uh-oh, Spaghetti-O, Movie Bob, yeah.
Oh, no.
It sounds pretty bigoted.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
Well, why Movie Bob?
Why?
I'd kill to know how Sinema Roberto got his views.
He was there in the beginning.
That's all the explanation I've got.
Yeah, I think that's about right.
He was around for pretty much everyone else.
He was one of the old school guys.
He got in her.
And he just kept on making like he must have he must have made a staggering amount of videos by now.
Well, he used to do like big animations and shit.
Like with like the overthinker and the stuff like that.
Yeah, he's like a bunch of cream screen.
Yeah.
I remember people saying the videos where he's like really that bad or really that good.
I remember people saying that those are better from him.
But it wasn't as take still bad regardless.
I'm pretty sure they were.
Probably.
I mean, he was one of the people who came to the one of his big things that kind of.
He was one of those pro Anita Sarkeesian people and he was anti-gamergate and Anita didn't do
nothing.
And she's, you know, an angel and just a bunch of angry white men don't like women in their video.
She's a fucking idiot.
It's definitely been impressing people on Twitter lately.
Big and press.
Don't you guys know talking is basically murder.
So all of you saying not all Nazis are Columbine shooters is wrong.
Also Nazis is banned.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Nazis is banned.
Declare I got away with it.
He said Nazis is bad.
Sad face.
He said to clarify, I'm sad about the censorship only.
I'm not sad about the lack of Nazis or anything.
Yeah, it's fine.
Anita Sarkeesian and Donald Trump actually agree that video games cause violence,
but Anita would never admit it.
No, you had to mention her name.
I know it's you have to say it three times for anything to happen, right?
Well, she accused me of raping her just because I took a photo.
Why?
Oh, oh, wait.
Why?
Okay.
Okay.
Sorry.
Five years ago, I was in a tabletop gaming place in Columbus, Ohio,
and I'm just playing my game with my friends there.
What game was it?
And then I don't even remember now.
You're in the patriarchy.
Yeah.
I forget things.
Well, you know, I think it might have been Stratego.
Stratego or crossbows and catapults.
If you're familiar with that, that was another one I played there.
No, I haven't heard of it.
So I'm playing my game.
I look up, the door opens.
Who walks in?
Literally Anita Sarkeesian.
She walks in.
She walks down the stairs and sits behind me.
And I'm like, no one is going to believe that Anita Sarkeesian
came in here and sat behind me.
Yeah.
So I took a picture of her over my shoulder.
Why didn't you just ask to take a selfie with her?
Well, that's what a boogie did.
Did she know who you were?
I don't know.
She wouldn't have known, but why didn't you just ask her, hey, can I take a selfie with you?
She would say, yes, that's her giving you consent.
And then you post it.
Because she's going to probably freak out or we'll say.
Selfies are a part of the majority.
She had like an entourage with them, too.
If she gives you consent, if you say, oh, my gosh, Anita Sarkeesian,
my friends aren't going to believe that I met you.
Can I take a selfie with you?
Maybe.
She would 100% say yes.
If she's got her little entourage, she would feel super special about it.
And then when you post it and she loses her fucking shit, it's like,
bitch, you fucking smiled.
You said yes.
It would have been hilarious if you said a big fact.
Part of this.
Part of this is like someone I was associated with at the time was
one of her least favored people ever.
But on top of that.
Well, did she see that person?
Tell that person to go to the bathroom when there's an interaction.
And you know what?
I could have like been disingenuous and gotten her to take her picture taken with me.
Sure.
But it's not disingenuous if you're literally going to take a picture of her anyway and say,
hey, like, I guess it depends on how you sell it.
If you're like, I have a fan of yours.
If you were like, I don't like you, but I'd like to take a picture with you.
I can almost guarantee you, she would have said no anyway.
You just say, hey, nobody's going to believe that I ran into you.
Can I take a selfie with you?
Yeah, she's notorious for never addressing any criticism or doing any debates or doing
any conversations with people.
Like the closest thing you're going to get to Anita Sarkeesian,
like addressing her critics is when she called Sargon a garbage human.
Yeah, that's the closest you're getting.
Wasn't Sargon in the chat earlier?
Yes, he was.
Yeah, he was.
He visits every now and again.
He hasn't come on the show.
He's floating around, he's keeping an eye on us, making sure we're not too crazy.
He's been on TV a couple of times, too.
Good guy.
Good guy.
How does it get his moral?
So anyway, get back to how you raped a person.
Okay, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Um, I'm I'm I just found the photo.
Oh, my God, it's been so long.
We're coming up on the anniversary of this shit.
Like, yes, it's been a long.
Um, so I just posted it there.
There's the photo of of me and my face and then Anita sitting behind me.
But yeah, I took that and made it seem like I stalked her.
Literally, I was long way.
I was there before she showed up and I left before she left.
So no stalking on my point on my part whatsoever.
But then she got a weird question to ask.
But which which piercing her more your nose ring or your lip ring?
Um, uh, nose ring.
Um, it's almost like getting punched in the nose.
You know, um, it breaks the tear line.
You have a line from the bottom of your mouth all the way up,
like through between the center of your eyes, where if you get hit hard enough there, you will cry.
Huh?
So it's kind of like that.
But, um, the the tattoos on both of my arm, like I both my arms totally covered.
And those hurt way more than every any piercing piercings, like a lot of pain all at once.
And then it tapers out.
And like tattoos is like a little bit of pain spread out over a really long time.
Makes sense to me.
So so she caught you taking that picture then.
And she didn't catch it.
No, no, no.
I I posted it on Twitter.
Actually.
Actually, when I saw Anita show up, I went into the bathroom and called my friend T.J.
And it was like T.J.
Anita is here and you should come down here and we can get like a photo of you
like shaking her hand or whatever.
And he's like, nah, fuck it.
I'm not coming down like.
All right.
Well, no one's going to believe we were here.
So I'm just going to take a quick photo of her.
Took the photo left, posted it on Twitter.
And then like hours later, there was like a bunch of virtue signaling feminists
accusing me of committing a crime by taking a photo of a public figure in a public place.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah, you never know.
And that's great.
I was going to say, we just got done with our version of that.
Like not the same thing, but similar the whole.
Oh, my goodness.
What's happening?
Well, what's happening?
People are suddenly just lost rags and that's the whole skill.
I know.
And you know, some of some of whoever that woman was and her fan base that you pissed off.
I can't remember her name right now.
Her fans came to the stream that you guys were on with us and disparaged you.
Yeah, some of them, a couple of them showed up.
And I'm like, what?
Well, like in the in the stream channel, the comments in in the in the comments
after the episode you guys were on, you were saying TJ, amazing atheist.
Yes.
Yes.
Yes.
With amazing atheists, me and TJ did drunken peasants for four years together.
So yeah.
Yeah, like we really pissed off a lot of people.
You know what was funny, though, as you've been here for this long now,
this is honestly absorbs probably the majority of that Jenny stream, what we're doing right now.
And it's like not even to do with it.
And yet people will be like, let's discuss.
You talk about it for that long.
It's like she's not that interesting.
Trust me.
However, Scooby Jew, infinite amount of time to talk about that.
That's that's what I mean.
Like what about Scooby?
People who are fans of Scooby and the Harlem Globe Trotters.
That was my favorite episode.
And Batman or Robin.
Those are my my favorites.
Of course.
Yeah.
Rags just said his incident is apparently down right now.
I don't know if he's trying to get it back up, but that was a weird coincidence.
Yeah.
And then a discord like tweaked out for a minute.
And I thought I saw everyone and it didn't say that anything was disconnected.
I thought we were all just playing the silent game.
And I was trying so hard not to laugh and everything was.
I mentioned he who can't be named in the internet when.
Who?
Who cannot be named?
I don't know who this person is.
Obviously.
I don't know who you're talking about.
He says it again.
Everything will go to shit.
I know.
Yeah.
That's happened.
Did you did you notice?
Like literally the moment I.
Yeah.
What if he types it in his even ways?
No, just can I get hints?
No, I don't get hints.
Also, I was going to say that it was just funny that people would like
say all that stuff about this this stream.
But the fans of it are just confused because of the amount of stupid shit we talk about.
And that's just sort of the funny conclusion.
We'd be really bad at our jobs if our goal was to just
hate on women slash people of color slash every kind of ist and ism you can imagine.
They're just like, man, we're really inefficient too.
It's like if that's all we did, I'm pretty sure we would not last at all because that
like if we did, that shit gets boring quick.
Yes.
You got to throw in some Scooby Doo, some big ideas, some Singapore.
This this clowns like there's a lot of really important details into this mixture, this recipe.
Yeah, you know, before before.
I was just going to say quick, right?
This next super chat sums it up.
You got you got to listen to this.
Who would you who would win in a fight to the death?
A tiny Gandalf with no magic, but he has a dagger or tiny Hitler.
But he tiny Hitler has no weapons, but he's in his prime.
Gandalf is four inches tall and tiny Hitler is six inches tall.
Gandalf.
Gandalf.
A four inch Gandalf with no magic, but he still has a dagger versus a Hitler without a dagger,
but he's in his prime and he's six inches.
Hitler was not a combatant.
That's so hard to answer.
Gandalf was pretty old and has no magic.
No, no.
And I'll tell you why.
I'll tell you why it's hard to answer because Gandalf in of himself is immortal, right?
I don't.
Yeah, I don't think a knife could kill him.
Or could it?
Wait, and more than he's not a moral than he's not Gandalf.
Wait, is it mean like we have to fight them?
In fairness, the mortal doesn't mean unkillable, though.
It means you live forever without somebody can kill you.
But who are they fighting?
Well, each other.
Each other.
Oh, they're fighting each other.
Oh, Gandalf will win.
Gandalf can outsmart.
Gandalf would win because he'd all that smart Hitler and Gandalf has seen more battles.
Hitler's just some fucking barking dog in a uniform.
I mean, Gandalf has the knife, too, so.
Yeah, exactly.
He may be shorter by two inches, but he's got the weapon.
He's got the edge.
Yeah, and that's the thing.
It's all like a lot of people like to boast like it's not that hard to do.
So I'm gonna go with the knife.
It's like, no, it fucking isn't a knife is really goddamn easy to get cut by.
And you can get fucked up and Gandalf knows how to use it.
Mm hmm.
Go.
I'd say Hitler, who's a front frontline soldier in World War One.
Gandalf, I don't know.
You got a lot of experience there.
A lot of experience.
Yeah.
These folks in Balrogs, you know, I'm just saying.
Oh, this is suitable as well.
The next one says Sargon's in the chat.
Get him in now.
I like the idea that we read this eight hours late.
I wonder if he's still there.
Clown Man Bad.
That's that's fair.
I sat through classes at Dartmouth,
a place that educates world leaders in which students and professors
unironically suggested that Nazism is inherent to whites like genes.
That's when I knew I wanted to live in white neighborhoods.
Oh, raw.
Oh, raw.
Oh, raw.
Um, I got a few of these free from YouTube boys.
So here you go.
Split amongst y'all.
Thank you very much.
Yeah.
Seriously, though, I'm excited to finally see you on a regular Efap ano.
And I'm glad you're on with the original three.
So now I'll say hi, Anna.
And also hi, Rags.
Oh, thank you.
Hi.
Rags you there.
His face is there.
He came back.
Yeah, he came back.
Oh, he never he never never said anything.
Maybe he like went to go fix his internet in some place.
And it now is fixed.
And he's still not bad.
He's there.
I think the internet.
Yeah, he's there.
Hey, there he is.
Hello.
It went down for a wee bit down a little bit down.
You missed the Hitler Gandalf conversation.
Oh, no.
Who won?
Well, you know what?
Everyone keep keep your opinions to yourselves.
All right.
That's really funny that you said that Rags.
Okay.
So here's the question.
Here's the question.
Everybody don't influence him.
All right.
Let him decide this himself.
So Rags, here is your question.
Okay.
You got a tiny Gandalf with no magic who's four inches tall.
And he has a knife versus is the knife.
Wait, wait.
How big is this a normal size knife that he's having trouble with?
Or we're told we're told it's a dagger.
I think in the spirit of the question, it is a tiny dagger that matches his tiny self.
Okay, that makes sense.
Versus tiny Hitler at a whopping six inches.
That is two inches taller than Gandalf with no weapon.
But he's in his prime who wins in this battle.
I assume they're both in their prime really.
Let me see.
So that's going to be I think that Gandalf is going to win.
And my reasoning is this.
So a two inch advantage over a guy.
It's pretty impressive.
However, that knife is matter Rags.
I know.
I know.
I know.
But the knife is a big game changer, right?
Knives are quite the force multiplier.
And I think that Gandalf has way more skill and melee combat than Hitler does.
So even though Hitler's got an extra two inches on him,
I think that with a knife and a skill, Gandalf, absolutely, we win.
Wasn't Hitler a World War One vet, though?
Didn't he?
Yeah, but I don't think he was like hidden trenches.
So Hitler hidden a trench while Gandalf was actually about.
Well, yeah.
And this is melee combat.
If this was like a marksmanship contest, maybe.
Hold on.
I also want to introduce the factor that how do we know
that Hitler and Gandalf wouldn't become lovers eventually?
Well, a can the question was who should win?
Because Gandalf is not applauded by their passion.
That's why I'm pretty sure, like, given the situation,
they're not going to be given time to love each other.
One of them's dying and it's going to be Hitler.
What is time when love is involved?
And to be fair, the question didn't exclude the use of resurrection or reincarnation.
So like Gandalf might have the extra edge there.
Just saying.
Yeah, what color is essentially immortal?
Like, if he is, then he would never lose.
Even if Hitler stabbed him to death.
Saruman did.
Yeah, it's complicated.
We need more specialists for this one.
No, he didn't.
Yeah, he did.
Saruman.
Oh, yeah.
In the extended version now.
Sorry.
And I think you mean the V version.
All right.
The version.
The only version worth mentioning.
I'm sorry.
I didn't own those versions.
College accepted.
Here we go.
And then I didn't watch them until college.
And I was like, Holy shit, where are these things?
We'll see.
We can't even judge it.
No, it's impossible because we know Jay.
So basically, Rags, we all agreed that Gandalf was going to win.
All of us.
Absolutely.
Like what what all Hitler has going for him in this fight
is that he's substantially taller.
Like two inches.
This is like two.
I was going to say two inches.
Can we ignore.
They are six inches as a person.
Yeah, it's like a four foot tall person fighting a six foot tall person.
That's a pretty big deal.
Yeah, we ignore Hitler's powers of manipulation.
How do we know that?
Do you think Gandalf would fall for Hitler shit?
Come on.
No, I mean, who knows?
He Hitler manipulated an entire nation.
And in fairness, Gandalf had to stay away from the ring
because he was potentially incorruptible.
How do we know Hitler?
How do we know Hitler wouldn't adopt Gandalf to become like the Nazi secret weapon?
Like as he's trying to get closer and closer and stab at him,
you think Hitler's like, wait, is this the right thing to do?
Think about this.
Right, right.
Then again, does it a more compelling English and does Gandalf understand German?
I don't know.
I think I think Gandalf is multilingual, magically lingual,
which no magic, though.
How's the universal trend?
Yeah, he doesn't have magic.
Oh, shit.
Never mind.
No universal trade.
Actually, yeah.
And that knocks out resurrection and immortality.
Even if they were relevant, that's magic.
Right.
So it's true outside influences.
So like Galadriel could probably bring Gandalf back.
I'm pretty sure we're sticking to just these two.
I was going to say that we're talking the real Hitler.
I think the no magic part of the question is pretty much
going to knock out anything like that in the spirit of the question, as we would say.
Well, I mean, we still will live for a long time, as long as, you know,
I mean, we all pretty much agreed Gandalf wins, but it's not like it's, you know,
easy like this could be an ongoing, you know, tiny person battle that.
Who knows?
Maybe they chase each other.
Weird. This is kind of a weird hypothetical for me,
because normally it's fictional character versus fictional character.
But now we have fictional character versus real person.
Wait, it's kind of weird.
Yes.
I thought he was just the way to shut up argument.
Someone needs to someone needs to stop him.
Jesus.
Yeah, we should also stop Coney.
Coney 2012.
Coney 2012.
We can finish the super chat in two hours.
Q1.5 hour arguing over who'd win between Tidy Hitler and Tidy Gandalf.
We're a very serious podcast.
Shut up.
Some things are very important to discuss.
Okay, next up.
Did you get your Albion yet, doggo?
I have yet to decide on sword or propoon.
Suspicious amount of women in this stream.
I have.
Oh, yeah.
Someone had like deemed me about like their prostitute experience.
And they typed out a long thing.
And I was going to read it, but they kept bugging me to read it.
But it was a lot.
I was like, well, chill, let me read it.
And then I like deleted it.
So I let me go to my emails here and see if because a few days ago,
I actually sent them just to follow up to make sure I was still in the queue
and everything was all good and whatnot.
So let me check here with my email.
Immels.
Oh, they said everything is moving forward.
I don't have a firm ETA quite yet.
So I guess we're still looking at the around.
February is probably about the time when it should be finished and done.
Oh, why not both, man?
Why not both?
Yourself a sword and some propoon.
Now, wasn't there a computer question for Wags earlier when he was gone?
Was there indeed?
Let me look at my my selection.
So huge.
I really need to not see.
I got a whole bunch of a shad that we can get done.
The next time he's here, it's just the.
No, no, no, no, that's for Wolf, Wolf, Wolf.
Doo doo doo doo doo.
Oh, there was a high rags.
I want to send you the Darth Bane trilogy.
Is there any way?
Darth.
Oh, it's good.
I'm actually on the last book of that.
Oh, the book.
I don't I don't know if I got time to read books.
I'm just going to be honest.
I have the audio books if you want them.
Um, I don't.
So I guess it depends on the summary of it.
No, I don't want no, because I don't know yet.
Hmm.
You seem very apprehensive to jump into this.
Yeah, I am apprehensive to jump into a new trilogy of books.
Yeah.
If you if you said the super chat, email me the channel email,
email me there and we can chat about it or DM me on Discord.
All right.
Um, rags molar wolf, the unholy trinity.
Yeah, we're very holy.
Yeah, very, very all of the holes.
Uh, we're going to need a really big roof for this man.
That's the second joke of that kind.
It was very good stuff.
All right.
Gay movie.
Bob is Yodist Baggins.
Well, you know, if you said it, I don't know.
Why did the tree go to the dentist?
It needed a root canal.
Why did the tree go to the dentist?
Yes.
I don't know why.
It needed a root canal.
What do you call a cow with no legs?
Can't move.
An immovable object.
Round ground beef.
No, that's right.
That works.
That works.
It's good.
What's the difference between roast beef and pea soup?
Um, one's good and one's done.
I mean, besides the obvious, I mean, for the sake of the joke, I'll say I don't know.
Anyone can roast beef, but no one can pea soup.
I guess it's a matter of a while.
This ends with I'm done.
What if it's gamer girl pea?
Oh, no.
Well, it says I'm done.
I just wanted to tell some lame jokes.
You nailed it.
Petition to rename the chat maulers into continental liberation force,
which would be MILF.
Press one, give milk or say hi rags to sign.
I've seen articles on how Joker only works with Arthur as white.
Yet there was another adaptation of a native son in 2019,
and many of those arguments suggest that bigger couldn't be a protagonist.
I don't know what native son is, I'm afraid.
Yeah, I don't.
There's nothing about Arthur's whiteness and the Joker.
Yeah, that would lead him to really do it.
He doesn't do anything because he's white.
I would say he could have been any color under the rainbow,
including people.
Yeah, anyone could be you.
Yeah, anyone could eventually become a piece of shit.
The seeds of destruction were sown when the trash compactor monster
molested Luke and Leia watched.
The death nail was the Willy Wonka Oompa Loompas
wore furry suits on Endor.
I'm shaking and crying.
I don't know what to make of that.
Scary.
The more content I watch from critics that defend TLJ,
the more it seems to me that they shape their critique
to counter the people who like or dislike it more
off than the films themselves.
Yeah, that's a big problem I've always had with a lot of the people we cover.
They often don't even fucking talk about the film.
They just talk about everyone else talking about it.
I mean, the movie Bob thing we just watched,
he barely actually talks about the movie.
Well, he had that one bit where he was like,
I could talk about all of the reasons why these things don't work,
but it's like, no, no, no, no, no.
Do that.
Like, where are you going?
Stop it.
I'm gonna talk about Columbine and blah, blah, blah.
You guys only do as homonym this stream.
Well, yeah, but it's movie Bob.
Ah, fair point.
Yeah, basically.
Movie Bob as homonym.
Well, I mean, I think they did that on purpose.
I'm not sure.
Maybe it's ass homonym.
Yeah, you want to give them credit, don't you?
Well, if I was doing that, I would have read it out correctly.
I didn't.
I just read it out as it was said.
My ass homonym.
Movie Bob as the boulder rolling after Indiana.
So I guess that was posted before we actually showed the meme of that
actually being a thing.
God, this has been an adventure.
This is Rags.
We're in trouble.
It seems like all the faps are going to be 11 hours and 55 minutes long.
We can't.
This can't go on forever.
I mean, it can, but we should.
We got to.
We got to.
I don't know if we need to pump the brakes on this or if we.
I don't know.
Do we need an intervention, Mahler?
What me and you give each other an intervention down with us and be like,
guys, listen, what's going on?
What's going on here?
This has gone on too long.
Love this initiation.
It's about to be and that style was guilty, Bob.
They didn't.
Nobody likes it.
Have you seen a movie about video before, Ben?
Have you seen?
Have you seen the movie, Bob?
No.
How did you manage that?
You're like a you've been on the Internet.
Fucking you've seen it.
You've seen all of the things, haven't you?
How did you miss movie, Bob?
Yeah, I'm not familiar.
Not a channel.
Awesome movie reviewer.
No, no, no.
The escapist magazine.
Yeah.
Well, we introduced two people to this this man today and well,
they they will be visiting the hospital.
Probably they are.
So not a fan is what you're saying.
Yeah.
Let's just say that every but every time we've covered movie, Bob,
the majority of the guests have left with like splitting headaches.
Like no joke.
Yeah, we're trying to find a way to sort that out.
Maybe me and Rags will get to the point where we just transcript his video so that
there's a lot of visual and audio pain.
Yesterday on DP, we had yesterday on DP, we had Jesse Lee Peterson
and we were just really let's just.
Yes, we did.
Wow.
He was not.
You covered him.
He was on it.
He was on DP yesterday.
Wow.
Interesting.
Did you call your basic plan?
Was just kind of like just act like we think he's smart is basically.
And and the funny thing is like we had like Billy and I are the the two main host of DP,
but we have our our fair share of regulars.
So I brought on like our two favorite regular co-hosts that are also black guys.
So when he showed up, he didn't know what to do because normally
he'll be racist against black people if he's just there with just white people.
So like it was like 50 50 there and he's kind of like, oh, Jesse Lee Peterson.
I'm just gonna go home.
Oh, you don't want to.
Yeah, he's he's pretty popular right now, but I see the people in the chat doing it.
But yeah, yeah.
Let's be.
He was so nice, though.
He was he was really nice to us and really friendly.
Like he is a nice he does seem like a really nice guy.
He was.
Yeah, he's he's strange.
I like him, but he's he's a strange man.
Oh, he's a lot older than people think he is, too.
He's like 72 years old.
So he's yes.
Yeah, you know, like I've always found and I don't find this to be racist.
Black people age better than.
Oh, they 100 percent do.
Yeah. Well, I think surely that's not racist because that's like
the racist part would be like, why are you saying white people age badly?
And I'd be like compared to you.
No, but what if I said black people were better at basketball than white people?
People would say that that's racist saying.
I know.
But I mean, people would say that's racist.
Well, that one's the interesting one to bring up when you have like
representation stuff and you're like, should they hire more white people
and like the NBA that is like, no, they could that's OK.
But at the next summer Olympics, go look at all the fastest runners in the world.
They all have a couple of things in common.
Yeah. And and long legs usually like like long legs in proportion to their body size.
Usually that sort of thing.
But yes, I like they'll it'll be funny because I'll see like someone running for France.
They'll be like the 40, 50 meter dash runner for France.
But they were born in Jamaica like these European countries will like
they'll recruit athletes from other countries that can win.
Yeah. Yeah.
We might be a citizen of France.
A lot of them are technically, but they they have that problem in the World Cup a lot.
Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah.
That's totally true.
All right.
I'm going to show you guys this picture.
Oh, God.
Do it.
OK.
Yeah.
You know what?
I I grew up in Ohio and and and I'm I'm 38 years old.
And I remember when I was in my early 20s, I went and saw LeBron James play while he was in high school.
I saw him play in high school and he scored like 70 points by himself in a high school basketball
game. Well, he graduated from high school and played the NBA the next year.
I know, but I'm saying that's not a lot of competition when you're when you know,
incredibly talented at this one thing and then you're playing against other high schoolers
that are just playing it because they wanted to join a sports team.
That's why this photo reminds me of that.
To see someone who who's like the future greatest of all time playing against
a bunch of high school kids, everyone knew right.
Hey, y'all, here's some litter, litter, all free money.
Hi, Rah, you did hi, Rah, like not even rags.
Scooby doo and the dancing Israelites.
Oh, my I mean, dancing is friendly.
So, yeah, nothing wrong with dance.
I'm going to have to disagree with all of you.
You're wrong to try and rationally deal with people like Bob.
Your entire frame is wrong for an engagement with him.
These are devil worshipping degenerates who take pride in supporting baby murder
and making reason and beauty rot.
They're ugly on a fundamental level.
Oh, my God.
Don't reason with Jared's fanboys is tagging me in your chat.
I'm sorry for interrupting.
One of Jared's fanboys is tagging me in this chat right now.
Jared has no way well.
Yeah, yeah, he does, actually, he does.
Well, anyway, sorry for interrupting.
Keep reading.
I said, don't reason with them, bully them, harass them, beat them.
And that, I mean, Rah, you know, that's I don't know about that.
You're never going to change minds that way, buddy.
Yeah, the thing of it is change their mind if there's no mind to change.
Well, the thing of it is, it's all like at this point.
Yeah, you're absolutely right.
He's chosen his path.
The thing of it is you've got to let him talk in order to destroy himself.
It's that easy.
Yeah, I mean, it's like, if he wants to speak,
if he wants to speak, we'll just let him go and just kind of watch him dig his own hole.
Well, it's not what you know.
It's like when he hasn't says, like, you know, that he was good for Westeros,
like most like me rags and did rotting.
We're mostly just silent through, like,
that was so painful.
Keep going, I guess.
Like, keep the really the way you're going.
You've dug yourself into the pits of the earth at this point.
But like, keep going, I guess.
Like, go on.
I love when rags, when you talk to people that are, you know, the Game of Thrones supporters,
and it's like, you don't know anything really too much about Game of Thrones.
I feel like that came out wrong.
But as somebody that's not been a diehard fan for as long as the rest of us have,
for you to like question them on things because you genuinely don't know
and watch them try to explain it and rationalize it.
It's hilarious.
I think the best example was like, oh, yeah, walk a shame sexist that you were like,
oh, they never did it to a guy.
It's like, no, it's like the first get pissed.
They did it too as a guy.
But okay, then rags and falls.
It's like, that doesn't sound sexist.
What do you want me to do?
Yeah, they do it to both.
It doesn't really sound like it's sexist.
But like, oh, but when they do it to a woman, it's worse.
Like, okay.
But she chose to do that.
They're like, do this walk a shame or stay in prison.
She chose to do the walk a shame.
While the guy had no choice, my big old cock flopping around a helicopter.
That bitch would be like, I'm out of prison.
Yeah.
And the guy had no choice.
By the way, he was just forced into it immediately.
Um, anyway, hey, Wolf, glad to see you feeling better.
And then you're back on.
If you have good luck with the new channel, take care of yourself, mate.
I'm sure you would very much appreciate that.
He definitely would.
Imagine movie Bob floating in the air like Peter Pan.
He's wearing the anti-gravity suit that Baron Haran and war in the Dune movie.
Serious question more than any timetable for TFA critiques.
Will episode three be done by episode nine or are you waiting for episode nine at this point?
So, um, when I finished the redraft, right?
And then, um, I started recording the first few pages and I said a couple of things where I was
like, man, those leaks we read.
Like if any of those are fucking true about Ray's parents and stuff,
I'm going to have to, this is all going to become pretty like.
You would listen to it and you'd be like, you saying this knowing about Ray's parents.
There's a kind of thing that needs a redraft if Palpatine is the grandfather or not.
And I'm just like, oh, like if I make the video, which by the way,
it's going to be pretty tough to make a three hour video fully edited.
And the way I do that TFA critique within a month, especially when you've got, um,
a few extra episodes of batwoman coming out and, and if upstream is like,
I'm going to, I need probably two months to make that.
So it's not going to be able to come out before episode nine.
And then episode nine is going to very well change the script.
But when episode nine comes out, I'm going to want to cover that.
And then I'm going to want to do the critique of episode nine to
cover in depth and talk about everything that's wrong with it ahead of time.
So realistically speaking,
or do anything that you would do and just work on it.
TFA, I'm totally oblivious to this.
Who is Palpatine?
Supposedly the grandfather.
Oh, I'll, I'll go.
I'll give you that in a sec.
I'll just to finish up.
So TFA is a series.
It's probably going to convert itself into a look at the trilogy as a whole
while also judging TFA because I mean, it's not, it's not like you guys
desperately want to know if TFA is plot line makes sense, right?
Like, I think you already know, especially.
Well, there's the thing.
I want to finish that series of videos.
I've written out that script and redrafted several times.
There's lots of stuff in there I really like and lots of research.
So it's going to happen.
It's just that I feel like I'm waiting for a biopsy diagnosis now.
Like I well, yeah, for what's going on.
Don't be lazy.
Make the video.
There's don't don't be throwing the lazy word around.
Okay.
It's not cool.
Fucking work my ass off.
Just because I don't make you put out as many videos as fast.
It looks like I'm apparently lazy like the you do it then.
I mean, that's that's I believe there was a guy a couple of months ago
on my discord who was like ripping into the fact that the TFA part three hadn't come out.
And then a bunch of people said he should go make it.
He said fine.
I will.
I don't know if you ever did.
Oh, wow.
It's fine.
Yeah, I will make a bajillion hour long video critiquing this thing.
Yeah.
So yeah, the idea is probably going to be that the TFA series will be redrafted again
once I'm finished with episode nine.
And it's going to evolve into a series that says something in completion about the three
films as a whole while the episode nine critique is going to be very focused on episode nine
specifically.
And yeah, I know that like it's like wow, you spent a whole year doing nothing.
I'd be like, you know, I've been working on a shit ton of other projects.
It's not my fault that Game of Thrones crashed and burned like miserably.
Like if that didn't happen, there's a good chance TFA part three would exist right now.
I mean, it's pretty much guaranteed, but it happened.
And Game of Thrones was super important.
So like, like, to me, I mean, I really like Game of Thrones.
It's really upset me what happened with this stupid last season.
So this is the thing, right?
Like it doesn't matter from my end because people just be like, you never going to make it.
It's like, oh, I will.
It's going to happen.
It's going to take a while.
August 2020 might actually be the realistic result for TFA part three at this point.
I have a question.
As someone who wasn't a fan of Game of Thrones, didn't the books already tell you what was
going to happen in the TV series?
The end, the books, certain part you could say the books have gotten as far as like season
five and six ish with different points being further behind and further ahead.
Season eight of Game of Thrones was just blind to all of us.
Pretty much you have assumptions, but OK.
So so it it started with the books, but then got ahead of the books themselves.
Yes. Wow.
Amazing. Mm hmm.
That's amazing.
Yeah, that's amazing.
The thing is, 2020 might be the year that I release a whole bunch of shit just because of
the fact that this the script is ready to go for TFA part three or while the rest of the
past. But then again, it'll need redrafting on the portions that are conclusiatory about
the trilogy. I don't care if I just made that word up. It works well enough for my sentence.
So the parts that are we know what you mean, it's a word.
They go. But all of the references to TFA itself talking about the flaws of that,
they're all going to remain the same like and each of the tangents I take to talk about
specifics in writing like that's all still there.
Um, yeah, and, you know, to answer, so like some of the leaks have implied that Palpatine just
straight up tells Ray that he's her her grandfather.
And that's going to that's going to change a lot about how we view all of the films.
So so who did who did Palpatine impregnate to make that happen?
Leah, we're not apparently we're not going to find out it's two people.
It's going to be one of two parents. And those parents are gone.
Didn't they confirm it in a book comic book?
Did they? In a way, I guess.
Well, I mean, in that way.
So this is the other problem is there's like a bazillion versions of episode nine right now.
So well, I saw somebody saying because they confirmed in the comic book that Palpatine
was the one that created Anakin through me.
So because of that, then somehow Anakin or as Darth Vader impregnated someone which is Ray.
The the easy way to say this is we need to see that fucking movie.
And then we can start really easily making definitive statements about things.
Mm hmm.
Because right now we've got Ray's parents are in a box, if you will.
And there could be all different kinds of things in there all at the same time.
And so as soon as the movie comes out, that box opens.
That mystery box has its contents spilled out.
And we all get to see what it is.
Finally, I'm sure we're all looking forward to it.
But yeah, that's the it'll be great.
That's the thingy and thingy of it.
And like I said, the videos are coming.
It just makes no sense right now to try and focus and create a video that's going to be
technically become relatively obsolete in terms of me talking about her heritage.
There's other stuff in there that works.
But I also it's not going to be possible for me to edit a three hour video fully in a month's time.
It's just not going to work.
The Game of Thrones episode three video took fucking ages.
Three or five?
Episode five.
Yeah, you said three.
Oh, I meant five.
Yeah, three.
Three was much quicker because I was fucking.
Yeah, I was about to say it's all like that.
That came out pretty quick.
Um, yeah, you know, stuff is on the way.
And besides, Efap fans have got plenty of stuff on the way, too.
Like there's seven pre-made videos that are just struggling with copyright right now.
There's a bonus Efap that's stuck behind copyright.
Like stuff is on the way.
That was the longest answer to any question ever.
I know people are going to get really upset about the fact
they're not going to get TFA part three before episode nine.
But the fact is, if I got three out, people would be like, where's four?
You know, it's like never ending.
I've got people upset at me for not doing this episode six for Game of Thrones as well.
And all the video game stuff.
And I'm just like, all I can do is explain my plans.
Sometimes the plans change the best I've got for you guys.
But I'm never not working.
There's like not a day where I don't do some form of work in relation to one of the two channels.
Anyway, do you agree that do you agree that episode one through three
in many ways is the story of the rise of Palpatine?
Yeah, well, of course.
OK, cool.
OK, cool.
You know what?
I sit next to Billy the fridge who doesn't agree with anything I feel about Star Wars at all.
Oh, we experienced some of that.
Yes.
You see, this is the thing, like he would have to try it.
I think because you guys did come on, I think he has to try and avoid mentioning
any of that in front of the FAP fan base because he'd be like, I know he's great.
It'd be like, what do you what did he say?
What did that guest just say?
It's fine.
It's fine.
Even a few weeks ago, when you guys were on, he was doing it again.
He thinks The Last Jedi is the greatest Star Wars movie ever.
But he's not sure what he does.
This thing where you can't he does this unfalsifiable thing where he says
it it might be the greatest Star Wars movie ever, but it depends on the next movie.
And I'm like, what?
I mean, you know, everyone has an opinion, right?
No, no, no.
Open up.
Let's hear how you feel.
A lot of a lot of people.
Oh,
movies should be judged on their individual merits.
No, no, I don't care if the next movie is the best movie ever.
It doesn't make that movie good.
Um, yeah.
Yeah.
So well, like so a lot of people said this about TFA because they were like, if if you
could pay off the points in TFA, well, it would it would at least make the movie better in terms
of its setups.
When I suppose we have to remove ourselves technically and be like, well,
is that really fair?
It's like really complicated to sort of figure out exactly.
But I guess if we're going to say that a sequel can't necessarily make
the one that came before it any better, then it also can't make it any worse.
Right.
No.
Yeah.
I don't think it can make it worse.
I don't care if it wins the Academy Award and everyone's like, whoa, this is genius.
I don't care.
Academy Award for worse.
Yeah.
Get some of the worst.
Well, like if everyone agrees, the next film in this trilogy is just a masterpiece.
Like everyone blows it out of proportion.
It doesn't make the previous movie better.
It doesn't.
It could be a plus.
It could be the new Citizen Kane of the 21st century or whatever you want to say.
Yeah, I mean, I pretty much agree.
It's not sure it will.
The thing about the one aspect that we have to worry about is stuff like
recontextualizing something.
So let's say, you know, a character like Luke Skywalker looks in the head of his
fucking family member decides he needs to die.
You could have a set of flashbacks in episode nine that further inform that and make it more
reasonable or turns out he was a clone.
That's not the actual Luke.
He was captured.
He was kidnapped.
He was put into it.
And, you know, so we're like, oh, so you have all these judgments about
T.L.J. about this character being assassinated.
Turns out that's not him.
So like it complicates judgments.
Is it weird that it wasn't Luke Skywalker dying in the last movie that disturbed me as
much as the green boob milk that he drank?
No, I think that's.
Yeah, there's certainly some aspects to it.
But, you know, there's a reason I picked it for my like, that's what I put up
whenever I say what the fuck at this point, because it's such a moment of just like,
what the fuck?
I literally said that in the theater.
Like, what am I watching?
It's weird for sure.
I would rather them cut.
I'd rather them cut open Tontons for fun and lay inside of them.
Just like, whatever.
It's past time.
Yeah, downright comfy compared.
I don't know.
Moving on swiftly as usual.
Okay.
Anna, that three fifths Star Wars girl.
Love you, Anna.
I feel like I'm more two fifths with how short I am.
But thank you.
That was a very old super chat.
Yeah.
We're all.
I like how I leave for like three and a half hours and come back and we're at the super
chats from the beginning of this dream.
Talking about Scooby Doo and the open door poo.
If cinema can make three thousand six hundred dollars a month, nothing can stop you.
Don't let your dreams be dreams.
Thanks lads and lasses of efap.
I had a nice podcast to listen to while I was working.
Oh, that was from weekend war.
Oh, good, good, good stuff.
But you were able to get through the day with a little help.
Finally caught a stream live.
Rhino milk for all.
Yes, very generous.
Bob's the biggest one man case study for physio, physiognomy, physiognomy.
Physio, physiognomy.
I mean, my my comprehension is clearly dead.
Physi physiognomy.
A person's facial features or expression, especially when regarded as indicative of
character or ethnic origin.
Thanks, Ron.
You knew there is a photo of Penny with a two familiar message from Thomas Wayne.
So the relationship is ambiguous on purpose.
Might be true.
Might not.
Hi, Rags.
Hey.
Yeah, I need to rewatch the film and fucking scroll through each scene in detail to see
what what information we really get about everything to do with whether or not there
was an affair between her and Thomas Wayne.
Interesting, though.
Sargon wouldn't even rape movie Bob.
True.
I wouldn't.
The relationship is a big question.
Love you, TW, on the picture of his mother and Wayne.
Um, yeah, OK, it's fair.
I'm sure there's there's there's details that can lend to.
Uh, Len, who knows how much of it was true.
Maybe they were in a relationship, but maybe that's all that it was.
There was nothing else after that.
Who knows?
Maybe half of it was real.
Then maybe she, you know, let her mind get away from her and.
Yeah, that sort of thing.
Only just now read.
We get worried.
Super chat.
We're going to be here for years.
Hey, we're doing everything we can.
OK, you guys going to get Magog of more scar on.
I have no idea who that is.
I know him.
He's a friend of mine.
Cool.
Is it, you know, we're never against pretty much anybody coming on to
effect at some point, so good work out.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Rod, don't throw movie blob the ensuing earthquake.
Oh, Anna's completely missing the point.
You people are acting surprised because you think he's stupid.
He's being willfully insincere.
All of these people are willfully insincere.
I mean, I don't know.
I believe movie.
Bob believes what he believes.
If you know what I mean.
Yeah.
Like I also, it's like he's not stupid.
He's willfully insincere.
He's just crazy.
He's a sort of a complicated case study, to say the least.
Putting child abuse in your movie.
That's kind of cringe, bro.
Man who lives in his brother's basement.
Did you mean mother?
Oh, well, maybe.
Oh, man, it could be.
Did you say that?
Putting child abuse is cringe.
I don't remember.
Trying to think of what that's referencing, but it's probably still movie Bob.
Well, I guess.
Well, he was making life.
It's because movie Bob just kind of brushed it aside.
He did that sound effect when they talked about the child abuse.
Oh, right.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
It's just that noise.
And it's like, what?
Okay, so that's not bad.
That's not a reason why he went and said, all right.
He was treating it like it was like, oh, not a big deal.
Poor you.
It's like, what the fuck?
Child and change a bit.
Greetings from Paraguay.
Hello.
Thanks, Moeller and everyone else in EFAT for helping me survive my horrible job
for more than three months.
I can't express with words how much y'all have helped me.
Oh, my goodness.
Good stuff.
Yeah, do what you can, man.
I'm here from that guy who was doing 43 hours at work that one time.
Oh, yeah.
That's the same guy.
43 hours a day.
He's being willfully insincere about the facts.
I mean, yeah, but like, you know, there's a good like, do you okay.
So what would you guys take be that these people are deliberately lying about the
film or that they've got a really bad memory or that they're stupid and they
didn't even comprehend events?
Mostly the third, but I think there's part of the first.
Yeah, I think it's a mixed bag and that there's different ones for different
people in my experience, and I can totally see why someone would conclude
one of the three more than the other two.
But I feel like there's lots of room with movie Bob like that man's crazy.
Also, yeah, I feel like maybe he's got his head just really up his ass to the point
where he kind of misses a lot of things or he doesn't talk about anything or define anything.
Hi, Rags.
Hey, and then it says all our eggs.
Hola, hola, no, no.
Then it says M by El Chapa Rags.
I don't know.
I don't know that one either.
Only one set.
Movie Bob has multiple chins.
Why not multiple moves?
I don't, I don't, I don't, I'm not, I wasn't, I wasn't the artist.
Okay, I didn't, I didn't draw any of it.
But guess what, guys?
He loved Frozen 2.
Is Frozen 2 even out?
I asked this every time.
I don't feel so excited for Frozen 2.
He may love Frozen 2.
I don't know what that would tell you about Movie Bob.
Let it go, guys.
Let it go.
Wow.
Two women on?
Is this ephapocalypse?
I don't know.
We survived.
I was so many photoshopped baby Yoda fighting Palpatine.
Oh my god.
So cute.
That's something we argued about today on DP was like, is it baby Yoda?
Is it baby Yoda?
No, it's not baby Yoda.
Everyone's calling it.
Yoda's dead.
How could it possibly be Yoda?
That's what we said, but people keep calling it baby Yoda.
Like, yeah, no, no, no, yeah.
People call it.
People don't know what the species is called.
Yeah.
Like, it's just a code name.
It's just easier to say, is it so cute?
Oh my heart.
Yoda species.
There's the species name is is not recorded.
Apparently, the species has no name.
Oh, which doesn't make sense.
People would obviously have a name for it, I guess.
But they're the Yolo they originated in 2014.
The Yolo's.
There's got to be some kind of alien.
Yeah, it'll be great.
Yeah, I guess it's supposed to be all.
They don't even know.
Yeah, sure.
All right, baby, it is.
Movie blob cherry picking his evidence to make his points is nothing new.
He studied under the tutelage of Anita Sarkeesian.
In short, he's a fraud.
I mean, yeah, I can agree with that.
He's certainly a fraud.
Like, fucking, it's nuts watching his videos.
I don't just stand like.
Fraud.
Oh, got him.
Anna, do you really want a conversation with Bob?
Um, the thing is, you got to like that other super chat said, saying I wasn't getting it.
When you talk to someone like face to face, there's a lot there that you can learn from
the person or learn about the person as compared to, you know, just not seeing their face and
just hearing them talk sarcastically on a video on YouTube.
So, yes, I would like to talk to him in person just to gauge if he's actually this stupid
or if he's just putting on a show.
I would agree with that.
Yeah, it's fair enough.
I mean, I would talk to him.
I'm not eager to do it, but I would talk to him.
Teen Titans Go is better than Captain Marvel and the Last Jedi.
That's probably true.
Sure.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think I think I'll just by default, I'll say that things are better than Captain
Marvel and the Last Jedi.
Never seen Captain Marvel.
You haven't.
It's terrible.
To me, to me, Captain Marvel is Shazam.
That is the real Captain Marvel.
That's the original Captain Marvel.
Didn't people like Shazam though?
From what I know, I liked it.
I actually went and saw it.
I always liked that character, how it was basically Superman, but he was a little kid.
He had like the little kid mind, but he was like basically Superman.
I always liked that character.
They had a really good episode of the Justice League Unlimited with him in it.
And they were all making fun of Superman.
They're like, oh, he's more of a boy scout than you are.
Yeah.
Yeah, I always hated how they couldn't call him Captain Marvel after a certain point
because D.C. acquired that.
That was like an intellectual property that existed prior to D.C.
But when D.C. acquired it, they couldn't use the name Captain Marvel anymore.
But he's the original.
Well, then.
Do you read the OG Captain Marvel?
Yes.
Yes.
And it was a man.
Wow.
No responses.
Well, there was also Mary Marvel, too.
I just want to think about his madness.
There's a whole bunch of marvels, isn't there?
Because isn't the best trend in Captain Marvel is going to turn out to be a Captain Marvel
or something?
I don't know how it works.
I just know that Captain Marvel was a mistake in the MCU.
I mean, if anyone anyone watching this stream right now, if you want to know the real story
behind Captain Marvel, Google Captain Marvel Steamboat.
Captain Marvel used to have a sidekick named Steamboat.
Oh, and that's all you need to know.
Just look it up.
You know, what was Steamboat's powers?
I I'm afraid to say anything else.
Like if you look up Captain Marvel Steamboat,
I get like now it's like, why did DC even buy that property?
Steamboat's powers.
Cooking.
Cleaning.
Driving a car.
Oh, my goodness.
Wow.
Are you looking at images of Steamboat or?
Oh, my goodness.
I can see why Steamboat wasn't in the new Captain Marvel movie.
Oh, no.
Well, Steamboat.
Oh, my goodness.
My favorite character.
Watch Steamboat.
Here, I'll show you a picture of Steamboat.
Here, this is Steamboat.
Actually, oh, this is a better.
Let's see.
Here.
All right.
Here's a picture.
Yeah.
Oh, let me put this on the right.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
Oh, my goodness.
Oh.
Yes.
Let's see.
I like how it says the world's mightiest mistake.
Jesus Christ.
Oh, sweet Jesus.
Well.
Yeah.
Well.
Well, well.
What can you say?
Captain Marvel.
Oh, some of these old comics were racist as shit.
Oh, my goodness.
Dude.
Yes.
Read the dialogue.
Read the dialogue.
I had to come banging in.
What's cooking in kryptum this time?
They gave him you.
Hello, Steamboat.
Nothing important.
I got a tip.
I love the tip.
Oh, my God.
Oh, shit.
Wow.
That's.
Could you imagine if Steamboat was that incarnation
with the Captain Marvel and Captain Marvel?
Jesus.
That needs to be the next DC film.
Oh, this is rough, man.
Yeah, yeah.
Glory to me.
It's the day of judgment.
Oh, my goodness.
This is awful.
I'm crying.
The Golden Age.
Shake my head.
Captain Marvel.
I'm so glad to see you.
This is terrible.
This is really bad.
Oh, my goodness.
Like people do this stuff now as parody.
This is how they are.
What a time.
What a time.
Oh, my God.
After Joker kills his mom, is he now an orphan?
I think we said the rules are that once you're old enough
to own your own blood, it no longer counts.
Right, right.
Once you kill your own parents, that doesn't count.
No, no, let's just say you became orphaned at an age
in which you could own your own blood.
You wouldn't be an orphan.
I think that was the ruling.
Something about that.
An orphan needs to be able to own his or her own blood.
I think that was part of the deep lore, the orphan lore.
That was the JXC, cynic snacks deep lore.
Very complicated.
But yeah, you could theoretically kill your parents
at a high enough age and you would not be orphaned
as long as you've got the certificate.
That gives you ownership over your own blood.
Just want to make sure everybody's clear on that.
Very important.
Themes over substance.
Hi, rags.
Hey.
Bubsy for Smash Bros.
Hold out hope it could happen.
Petition to rename movie Bob, movie boomer.
Give milk to sign.
This guy really wants people to sign.
I'm working nights at the moment
and Bob gave me the mother of all rage headaches
that will definitely keep me awake.
Thanks, cinema Roberto.
Thank you.
And then censored.
Oh, oh my goodness.
Should be back.
I disavow.
I'll have to catch the rest on moolah night, everybody.
Good night.
Good night.
Did you just call cinema Roberto a waterhead?
Nice.
That's a reference.
The reference Ben gets, right?
Right, Ben?
Oh, sorry.
I ran away to fill up a water bottle, but I see steamboat
as a hit in your chat.
He's kicking butt and taking names, man.
Yeah, he's sitting here.
Right steamboat.
That should be the next DC film.
They fucked up Green Lantern.
They can't possibly mess up steamboat at this point.
I agree.
Raw get the roof, the heavy roof.
I think he knows he's on it.
Do not read Jenny's Twitter.
She's a complete bimbo.
Oof.
They allow bimbo on Superchance.
In fairness, this said she's a complete bimbo, but, you know.
Complete?
Who's Jenny?
She's the one that we criticized and well.
Oh, okay.
The world ended.
We should have known better.
Moolah, please watch Seven Kayas, Seven Boxes.
A funny movie from my country, Paraguay.
By the way, Terrejo Ejapiro Tunere Mokoy Jaguar Tembo.
Love you all.
I agree.
Buenos dias, Ben Shapiro.
Yes.
And yeah, I have no idea what that Seven Boxes thing is,
but I guess I'll pop it on the list.
As one said.
Super right.
My first Super Chat Free fap.
Wanted to say that you guys make my work day go a lot easier.
Go buy a lot easier.
Also, welcome back, Wolf.
And hello, Nags.
Hello.
And yeah, good stuff.
And if Wolf were here, you know, if we had rewound by six hours,
he would have said hello.
He would have.
He would have.
Finally saw Joker yesterday.
I didn't know he came back.
That's pretty awesome.
He's making his way.
He's making some videos on YouTube as well.
It's a new channel of writing and rage.
Uh, finally saw Joker yesterday.
I don't see how anyone can hate this movie.
It's uncomfortable at times, sure,
but it was the point, right?
It makes you think.
No, it said nothing.
That's what they don't like.
It makes you think.
No, we've been told it says nothing.
It's meaningless.
How could you conclude that it has meaning?
Wrong.
Movie Bob is the overarching villain of Efap.
Is he?
Oh, I guess we covered him quite.
Probably Patrick Willems, if ever we cover him again.
Who's the...
Who's the...
It can't be down with thrust because he's like gone
and he's also a hero of the stream now.
But he would have worked.
It's hard to know these things.
I love how I've created a steamboat meme in your chat.
I mean, I'm sure they love him.
Steamboat.
Steamboat milk.
Steam milk.
Also, Anna, please convince Meowler to watch the Clone Wars.
It's the best Star Wars content since the OT.
Yeah, smaller.
Watch the Clone Wars.
What do you have against watching the Clone Wars?
I hate women.
Fuck you.
I'll get around to it.
I'm sure of it.
Just play it in the background.
It's really good.
The writing gets a lot better as the seasons progress.
And it's really good.
So just watch it.
How many seasons is it?
I believe there's seven.
Wow.
They're really good.
Is there a new one coming out or did it come out?
Yes.
So the new one is supposed to be coming out.
But the thing is, it's so there was going to be another season.
But then for whatever reason, they didn't make it.
But all they had an animation done for it.
They had the writing done for all of it.
So it was there.
They just didn't make it for whatever reason.
And so, yeah, so that one's going to come out.
And I have high hopes for it because everything was already done,
which I think is why they're going to make it.
Plus also the characters.
And the show was actually pretty popular.
So yeah, but I would highly recommend if you guys haven't seen it to watch it.
It's really good.
All right.
And whenever they use the excuse, oh, well, it's for kids.
Just throw down the Clone Wars.
Be like, that was for kids.
And look at how well written that was.
There's so many.
So I'm going to feel the same way.
Like I'm a big Trek fan.
And I always like Star Trek, the animated series.
Like a lot of Trek fans consider that actual canon.
And people like that more than a lot of the live action series that they put out.
Really?
I don't think I've ever heard anyone say that they like the animated series better
than any of the live action series.
Really?
I've heard plenty of people say that.
I wasn't even aware there was.
We're just talking to different people.
The war of the anecdotal evidence.
I'm actually a bigger Trek fan than Star Wars.
And I've been to the big cons in Las Vegas and everything.
And I. Yeah.
Yeah.
Like I've heard people say they like the animated series, especially like,
well, a lot of the people who are in the into anthropomorphic animals like that,
you know, the the tiger lady lion woman character.
So. Yeah.
So I'll check.
Freaking nerds watch man stuff like Star Wars.
Like Star Wars.
Star Wars.
Well, Star Trek is Star Trek.
Star Trek is more cerebral and takes more thought.
Yeah, I believe there was a distinction between Star Trek and Star Wars was an interesting one.
One is science fiction.
The other science fantasy and science fiction.
Oh, my gosh.
Star Trek was because it was very well, actually.
I have something that you guys will appreciate.
Let me find it.
So I have a very long screenshot of this.
But years ago, somebody on Facebook decided to intentionally piss me off
and they decided to post on their Facebook Star Wars versus Star Trek.
Ready, set, go.
And I tend to write very long things when I think that the argument is invalid.
Let me find this and share it in the chat so you guys can see
just how excessive this argument was for me.
But I'm one of those people that Star Trek and Star Wars are so different that you
just because they're sci-fi does not mean they're comparable.
Right.
I agree.
You'll appreciate this.
You will be appreciated.
I'm excited to share this with people that will understand the context of this.
All right.
Here you go.
Hopefully it applies.
So how do you think Picard will be?
What are your expectations?
I am very skeptical just based on what they've been doing, especially with Discovery and all
the people that are running it.
And then after watching the series, just I mean, remember when Picard tried,
he even considered after what happened with him when the Borg and how he went
back to the vineyard, he saw his brother and everything.
And then he realized, you know, he had that job offer on the Atlantis project.
He's like, no, I need to be an outer space type of thing.
And then later on, when he gets that message saying that his nephew died and he's talking
to Deanna about how nobody's going to carry on the Picard line.
It's going to die with him and his brother.
And he's, you know, debating about life.
I was like, they need to watch those two episodes before they write this,
because based on the trailer, it doesn't seem like they
even took into consideration his reflection.
But what you're referencing, what you're referencing is part of the next generation
and then part of a film.
Yeah, I know.
Yeah.
Yeah.
So and like the canon between the films and it's a little show, little off.
Yeah.
But mostly consistent.
But there you go.
There's my shutdown of the debate between Star Wars and Star Trek.
Oh, my goodness.
I don't know if my full name is going to put it on screen or.
That's why I said I don't know if my full name is in there.
I just realized that.
Well, I can I can just know it's it's big chat.
It's very big.
That's the point.
She wrote an essay and blur it out.
You did a long man bad, didn't you?
I did a long woman bad.
Thank you very much.
Long lady.
Thank you very, very true.
Long woman bad.
Working security for the same play for the third time.
And I am in fact bored.
Don bless.
Damn.
If you're bored on the third time, we've been told that this means it's bad.
That's that applies to every piece of content ever.
OG Teen Titans was my favorite show.
Raven sit on my face.
Oh, my goodness.
What I hate most about Jenny is that she uses the dum dum.
How how we or Tismo look to shield herself.
Fans of that shit should be thrown into lava.
Oh, my goodness.
Not even off a roof.
I don't know.
Well, off the roof into lava.
Oh, OK.
They're not exactly.
Is that house in a safe area if surrounded by lava?
I don't know.
Maybe the maybe the lava is just in like a specific like a well.
And the rest of the area is actually quite pleasant.
I don't know.
I'm not going to assume things about Ra's backyard.
You know, I'm not the kind of not the type to do that.
Hi, Mayler.
Hello.
A lot of people end up saying Mayler because more gets corrected to it.
It's quite funny.
So Mayler.
Yeah.
Hi, Wolf.
I rag.
Hey, got classes in six hours.
Can't catch this one live, unfortunately.
Probably awake by now.
So anyway, I have five bucks for hearing about fluffy rags.
Also ten.
Thank you.
Fluffy rags.
Hang in there, Anna.
Bob has killed too many of us.
So for reference, we covered a video, another video, memes, and then started super chats.
And according to these super chats, we haven't even gotten past the first video yet.
Oh, no.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Good to hear you again, Wolf.
I'm sure you'd appreciate that.
That's a pretty nice kind of problem to have, though.
I mean, yeah, we just got my issue is I really want to get to everybody.
And so I don't like, you know, we're not going to be able to finish these in time,
chat.
I know this is a huge shock to you.
Like we're about to hit the cut off.
We've got we've got literally 12 minutes.
No, 20, 32 minutes, 32 minutes.
We're going to have to come up with some thing.
Well, I don't think this is going to be a consistent issue.
This is because we had a bleed over before and then we had a bleed over again.
And during our super chat read, we had several people here.
That's also something that slows us down a bit, but not in the way that I'm saying like,
oh, you guys should leave.
I'm just saying that that's that explains it.
Um, we could, you know, the Aiden solution was to just have a super chat stream.
We could do that after this one, but I don't know how much energy
is remaining in our cast today.
Yeah, it's it's almost four in the morning.
That doesn't you always say that like it means so.
We never know where you or when you're sleeping.
Oh, I I'm tired.
That's it. Nailed it.
All you have to do is just say you've been up for X hours.
I don't even know how long I've been up.
So, um, the plan is probably going to be that we will pick these up on.
And I can't believe it like pick them up as in we'll go from where we left off
on Sunday night, which is going to be an epap.
We've already got topics and guests set.
So, um, yeah.
Yeah, I know that the idea is that they could stop bleeding over every stream.
We're going to I think with the Sunday one,
me and Rags will make it so that it's me and Rags.
Right. And we'll we'll we'll nail it.
Okay. Yeah, I think we could pound them out.
You know, yeah, we're efficient.
The two of us are very efficient.
So for the first five hours, no problem.
Just smaller and Rags.
Sure. Yeah. Okay.
I'll carry on and we'll do as many as we can before we hit this cap.
All right.
What I hate most about Bob is that he's fat and ugly.
What? That's. Oh, man.
God goodness.
That's rough for you.
He's just throwing them all out tonight.
Fire in all cylinders.
In 2019, the Wayne Killer would have logged it.
Yeah. I mean, probably imagine the amount of coverage all of that
would have gotten in 2019.
The the riot portion of Joker.
God, I feel like a cutout Rags is perfect for rubber ducking.
I need this in real life right now.
Now, rubber ducking.
I guess how is he referring to the little the little paper cut?
Yeah, maybe like having a little rags floating above them or something.
Is that what that means? I don't know.
It's like a debugging thing.
Oh, it is.
Yeah, it it's a method of debugging code.
Rubber duck debugging and software engineering rubber duck debugging
is a method of debugging code.
The name is a reference to the story in the book,
The Pragmatic Programmer, in which a programmer would carry around
a rubber duck and debug their code by forcing themselves
to explain it line by line to the duck.
All right, yeah, use rags as a little duck.
That's fine.
Rubber ducking also.
So there's a few other ones.
Rubber ducking is used to describe the act of sexual intercourse
between two females while using a strap on for penetration.
Yeah, okay.
But it is a term for ball tapping.
It is also used to describe the act of slapping a woman's breast to inflict pain.
When one does either of these actions, they must scream out rubber duck or rubber ducked.
The first person to ever ball tap someone under the new name
was N.K. from Pennsylvania at about four thirty p.m.
What the first time a breast was slapped under the name
was about 10 minutes later by a KP from the same state.
What the fuck?
That's oddly specific.
So I don't know what they're talking about when it comes to rubber ducking.
Yeah, well, I mean, there could be multiple things.
I'm going to go with the debugging one.
That seems like the most likely.
Even if it were debugging, why a rubber duck, of all things?
I don't know.
It's from a story.
Rubber duck.
Well, you could be like, why is Luke in a farm?
You know, moisture farm.
You could ask all kinds of questions, dude.
Like, come on.
More like rub rear dick on some.
I don't know.
Oh, man.
Oh, even you unimpressing dust bullshit now, right?
You are deflating him.
It's not important.
Inflating deflating me like a rubber duck.
Like a rubber boobabob.
Like a rubber bob.
All because someone said rubber ducking and then we had to find out what it meant.
Yeah, I know.
It's not awful.
It's the super chat.
You have to blame.
It's what heaps are.
Thirty seven hours now.
Yes.
We have to discover and research rubber ducking.
Does movie blob have any surviving brain cells?
Does he just vomit up with salad thinking it makes him sound intelligent?
I'm not going to say that's not the case.
I'm sure he thinks it sounds very intelligent.
He thinks he's very smart.
He's a very smart man.
Yeah, he barely uses any periods when he's doing his sentences.
That makes him smart.
My mom has experienced multiple friends end their lives due to mental health issues in the 80s.
This movie gives a visual to the people who have no idea how bad it can get.
Makes me appreciate it even more.
I mean, yeah, there's a suicide really big in the 80s.
I don't know about that, but just just general mental issues.
It's just like there's never going to be a time where that's not a thing.
Cocaine, cocaine.
Yeah, Carrie Fisher did cocaine in the 80s and now she's dead.
That's true.
That's true.
There you go.
Correlation.
Why is Keith Richards still alive?
Yeah, it was always always outliers, always outliers.
Uh, Joe, I think maybe Carrie built up a resistance to it.
Joker was on the jab pills.
Doesn't it make sense?
I'm not going to say it doesn't.
My mother was bipolar and she constantly was changing meds and had an entire box
full of her medicine.
So she, yes, she took away more than seven pills and still lived.
Oh yeah.
So Ben, one of, uh, movie Bob's points was that if you're taking seven
forms of medication at the same time in the 80s, then you should be comatose.
I don't, you know, I don't, uh,
is that the, like till this day, till this day, you should still be comatose.
No, just, it doesn't even necessarily matter what the pills you're taking are.
If you're taking seven, that should put you in a coma.
That's all it's.
Grass friends of Viagra.
Some, I don't know, sleeping pills.
We even included the possibility of placebos.
Fucking water pills, you know, just like sugar pills, but no.
What about like some herbal remedies too?
Seven herbal remedies.
Would that put you in a coma?
I don't think so.
Yes.
Um, I made a know your meme page for Efap.
I have no idea how know your meme works, but I mean, it'd be pretty calm.
What is Efap as a meme?
That'd be pretty difficult to explain, wouldn't it?
Oh goodness.
We are an umbrella of memes.
We are a meme factory, as they say.
We're a category.
Category.
I just read most of that essay.
We, uh, we, we got the edited version of the essay too.
If you want to put it up, I see.
Uh, oh, do you want me to put that up?
I just scribble out my last name.
I mean, she re-uploaded it.
It's wow.
Like this is like my, uh, my thesis of my junior year of college right here.
You know, what's funny is when I had to take the SATs, the first time I took them,
the essay portion was asking, are people born bad or people created bad?
And so I wrote it completely about Star Wars and, you know, the arc of Anakin
versus the arc of Luke and like bringing in all the Star Wars lore.
And I've, I was actually pretty proud of it and I'm surprised, but I got a perfect
score on the essay section of the SATs for that one.
And I was like, this is the greatest moment of my life.
Like I don't do well on tests, but I am glad that whoever was grading that was
probably a Star Wars fan, but then the second time I took the SATs, I got on
where you had to write an essay based on some quote.
So I tried to relate it to Star Wars and Star Trek.
That one I didn't get as well of a score, but I also was very hungover, but still
kind of was the same along the lines of this one, but yeah.
Well, reason stories don't go to school, stay home and watch movies.
Yes, they teach you everything.
Like as Jenny pointed out, Joker teaches you that medication is bad.
Just all of it.
Don't take medication, people.
And see, nobody's actually like, you know, countering this was clearly true.
Like I wouldn't be able to say something like this
without it being true if someone had criticized it.
So it's, you know, just saying everybody here agrees with it automatically.
I mean, I'm not a doctor, but sounds good to me.
A girl in college told me she quit smoking and her oxy addiction for me.
Bitch was my stalker.
I bet if they made a film about her issues, this fat, oh my goodness, fat fuckle.
I think he was going for a K.
Would love it.
But because Arthur's a white guy, oh, screw his movie.
I want Bobbed Ed.
I'm going to have an aneurysm trying to get past filters.
Oh yeah.
That probably explains all that.
It's lots of different words he wants to get through.
This tame versions of all of the words you're using, right?
You'll be fine.
Just use, just use those good old tame ones.
Get right in there.
No problem.
An efap on my birthday with wolf.
What a marvelous gift.
Oh, there's a couple of people's birthday things.
E-man and a solette.
That's three now.
Yep.
What a marvelous gift.
Also, high rags.
Hello.
Anyway, keep up a good work of brightening my commutes to uni.
Cheers.
Good stuff.
Efap is definitely good for commutes.
Weren't you even saying that about your old commute?
Yep.
I mean, I used to listen to Drunken Peasants when I was going to uni.
Oh yeah.
I was there for a lot of the big events, especially the I was there thing with the sitting.
Oh man.
Oh yes.
Yeah, that was impromptu as well.
Brett showing up for that stream was not planned whatsoever.
So yeah, there's quite a bit of history there.
It was epic.
Uh, Q for all flat earth or two.
I don't know.
I don't think so.
Brett just vanished from YouTube again.
Again, suddenly for like.
Yes, for the seventh time.
Seventh.
You sure is that few?
You're right.
It could be like 20th for all I know.
Q for all favorite Indiana Jones film.
Also High Rags.
Last Crusade is my favorite.
Last Crusade.
Yeah, I gotta agree.
They're all good though.
That's the thing.
You're all good.
I enjoy them all.
Well, not the fourth one.
Oh right.
That doesn't count though.
Black block exists since the 70s.
It's not anonymous.
Anonymous.
Sorry.
Um, that's probably in reference to Bob talking about how it's referencing
something that's out of here and stuff.
That whole video is real headache.
Honestly, thinking about it again, like the whole.
They're pulling things from timelines and they're not
allowed to use them in other timelines.
It's bad.
It's like, oh, oh, it muscle.
It's the theme of this video that we shouldn't take our insulin.
Bill Bob Bagman, 1940.
It could be weird.
How movie blogs speak so fast, spews so many words.
It is audience yet says little of substance.
Big fan of you lads and lassies, by the way.
Oh, I hope you're enjoying the show.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yeah.
This one just says Wolf.
Check your Twitter.
I'm assuming it was about memes.
It probably was.
Should I bring Billy the fridge in here right now to plead his case about Star Wars?
No, no.
Well, we should, we should stick this over.
We've got, we've got less than 20 minutes to get as many of these.
Oh, sorry.
I don't know if you've ever done it bad, but we're about to hit the YouTube cap.
I think you have, right?
Oh, yes.
Yeah, yeah.
Damn it.
YouTube for not telling me if that was live.
Anyway, rags mauler wolf.
You guys are enjoying the Mandalorian.
Definitely check out the clone walls and rebels.
There's some tism, but they're good.
Rebels is not as good as clone wars.
That's all I ever hear.
I haven't actually heard the reverse ever.
It's always that the clothes is better.
There's certain episodes that are really, really good,
but it's really hard to invest in certain characters.
Like Hera and Zeb are awesome.
Sabine gets better with time, but the two main characters,
Ezra, Ezra, and Kanan.
Ephab's IMDb page has a higher rating than Batwoman.
So Ephab is officially better than Batwoman.
All right, guys, we did it.
That's an achievement.
We did it.
We're better than Batwoman.
Yeah.
It's a fusion.
Hi, mauler.
Hi, wolf.
Hi, rags.
Hello.
Hey.
Also, hi, rags.
And hi, Anna.
Welcome to your first official Ephab as guest and hi, J Longbone.
Hello.
Hello.
Hi.
I'm watching about two hours behind, but I wanted Thorne to be my TIG Biddy Goth GF.
It's a fair choice from what we understand.
A lot of people are going with Thorne.
TIG Biddy.
Laugh my ass off.
Bernie Getz was Chewish, not White Chipmun.
That's from Ra.
I remember that was the article I think he brought up, right?
From 1980s, I think.
Has Bob never heard of the Opium War?
Well, this is the thing.
It didn't even matter if he was like, oh, it happened in this timeline.
So it can't be here.
It's like, why?
Why can't there be a drug issue?
Like at any point?
Why does it have to be at a specific timeline and date anyway?
But there's also referential things that actually match.
So the whole thing just hits.
Like, it's like, why don't you point here, Bob?
Has Bob never heard of a treadmill?
I'm sure he's heard of them.
He's aware of their legend.
He got tired just thinking about him.
SNL was in the 70s as well.
Yeah, it was.
I don't know.
I don't know when SNL started.
I'm not sure.
Let me check.
When did SNL start?
October 11th, 1975.
No kidding.
Wow.
Yeah, I thought that started like in the mid 80s.
No, no, mid 80s.
By the time they hit the mid 80s, they had like Eddie Murphy and all them.
The original cast was Dan Aykroyd, Chevy Chase.
You know, that that era, John Belushi.
So yeah, it was like it was, you know, late mid to late 70s.
Nothing funny.
Just want to support.
Thanks, guys and gals.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Insane Scarface impression on my page.
Okay.
Insane Scarface.
All right.
Good stuff, man.
I talk with Skitzos daily.
Seven pills is a good day.
Yeah.
Well, he said it's okay today.
It's not okay back then because it's different.
Mola, invite me to the stream.
I have opinions too.
Okay.
I mean, you know, as you can see with chat, we've got everybody has opinions.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Opinions are like look at Ryan Connelly.
He just said Bill Murray.
That's an opinion.
You can't deny that.
He was not an original SNO cast member, but he came around very early.
While I hate the idea of a Joker sequel, I'd love to see a series of Batman
rogues films in the style of different directors, Ivy as by John Carpenter,
Riddler as by David Fincher, et cetera.
Your thoughts?
Sure.
Yeah.
I mean, this is the problem we start to get to when you highlight like, oh, imagine this
with this and this is just like just good stuff.
Give me some good stuff.
A little bit deprived of it for the high budget areas of movie making.
Billy just told me that he's very disappointed in you all that you didn't like The Last Jedi.
I'm disappointed.
This is not the audience for him to say that.
I know.
I just want to watch him implode.
That already happened, right?
We debated about it for a little bit.
I know, but he'll do it again.
He'll do it till the end of time.
Like he'll he will defend it.
Has he seen my series of videos?
Can I just ask him to watch them and then see what he thinks?
I can ask him.
I mean, the problem is, I don't know if he has a free five hours.
I did.
I watched them, though, because I watch a lot of stuff while I'm setting up stuff for stream.
So I watched a lot of your stuff.
Did I?
Did I make you a movie?
No, no, I'm not easily influenced.
If I like something enough, it'll take a bit to sway me.
I just didn't like that.
I didn't like I haven't liked the first two movies of the newer trilogy.
The first one seemed way too familiar to me.
And then the last one just didn't make sense.
But yeah, what one thing that did make me like it less was,
you know, when you take that big fight scene in the throne room and slow it down,
how it doesn't add up, you think that's something that they would.
Yeah, you you think that's something that they would examine frame by frame
and make sure at least that makes sense.
Yeah.
But I think there's a mindset of as long as it can trick people.
And I'm not saying that like a disingenuous way in a filmmaking sense.
They're like, as long as it's fast enough that no one can really tell it's stupid.
But that's not really that's lazy.
Yeah, like that's the problem.
There's a lot of filmmaking elements that get corners cut
as long as you can just make it look like it sort of looks OK.
And I'm just I don't know why they would they have access to just the best
choreographers and all these people and all this time and money.
And it's like, come on, guys, make something incredible.
Do it.
Yep.
Oh, here comes another one.
Hi, I do Stoll's impressions on my channel.
If you want to check out Stoll's impressions, it's a channel called Gin Kid.
Strange method in trying to get it's it's J.
I. N. N. K. I. D. All one word.
Hope Joker sequel is starting.
Yes.
Gin Kid.
Hope Joker sequel is good, but I prefer no sequel.
Yeah, I mean, a lot of people feel that way.
I it's just so unlikely a sequel would be as good as the first, I guess.
And then we just really hard act to follow.
And then we're all going to be very worried about the ruin element.
Please don't ruin.
Lord of the Rings would have been better if it was set in modern times.
Instead of building sets and costumes and all that dumb stuff.
Agreed.
Is this mother Hubbard really complaining that they put too much effort in?
Bob, you absolute spoon.
Mother Hubbard.
20th Century Fox released the trailer for the Call of the Wild and it looks like garbage.
It was a Jack London classic and how harsh the Alaskan wilderness is.
But now it's been turned into a boy and his dog story.
I've heard that Harrison Ford is in that trailer and apparently there's a really badly CGI dog.
That's all I've heard.
And anyone else know anything about this?
I I think that if you if you're going to have a dog in something,
it better be done well, quite frankly.
I agree with that.
Call of the Wild.
Apparently, it's awful.
Call of the Wild.
Let me see.
I've seen it.
Call of the Wild.
Yeah, I've seen that film before.
I guess it's like a new one coming out.
Because the trailer is just released for it.
Apparently, it's horrible.
Yeah.
Really?
From 20th Century Fox, which I thought they were done now
because any media from them is Disney now, right?
Or I guess they stay.
I don't know.
I probably don't know.
Oh, wow.
We've literally got under eight minutes or around eight minutes.
Okay.
It's the prequel to White Fang.
All right.
Yeah, I remember that.
Hi there, rags.
I'm doing fine.
Water may not be wet, but does light shine?
Yeah.
All right.
Nailed it.
In Movie Blob's review of Joker, he says the along the lines of,
this movie has nothing to say and won't shut up.
Oh, the irony.
Agree.
Well, I don't know.
I don't know if light shines.
I mean, you would say that light has the property of doing the shining,
but then the shining is just the light, the photons and all that stuff.
So I don't know.
I had to think about it.
That's fair.
I'm not sure.
Maybe ponder further.
You know, maybe you'll elaborate.
I will ponder further.
This video by Cinmaroberto sounds like a fast-talking Jeb Nichols.
Like what the fuck did he watch?
Also, hi, rags.
Hey, Movie Blob's sex doll is Jeb Nichols' giant porg.
Oh, no.
Jeb is in there.
You can't do that.
Oh, no.
Oh, Jeb.
I mean, I lived in a basement apartment when I was a kid.
Well, like I said, I'm sure it's a real thing.
It's just the fact that he referred like it's.
Like I'm assuming it's just his parents house in which he was living in their basement
and he called it a basement apartment.
Seems unnecessary when you just say it's a basement.
Trying to make it sound a little different from what it probably is.
I don't know.
Sounded funny to me.
That's all.
Chris Stuckman gives Knives Out an A-.
He called Ryan Johnson a master filmmaker
who can write masterful scripts with great plots and characters.
Oh, of course.
Okay, Chris.
All right.
Chris.
Chris.
Now that's a full circle reference.
Chris.
Movie Blob is self-partnered.
Get it right, guys.
Just like Emma Watson.
Oh, I heard about that.
People aren't single anymore.
They're self-partnered.
Emma Watson.
Yes, it's all, guys.
She's a woman.
She's a feminist woman.
Efap, this is my last of my free SC.
Take it from me.
Very well.
Thank you.
Send film Robert back to the abyss from whence he came.
I mean, pretty much.
I don't we don't really have any intention to cover him anymore now
unless he has a super tism take.
But I mean, that's pretty much what I would have said before Joker came out.
So yeah, you know, he could be back at any moment.
Dollar, because rags likes aqua teen.
Yeah, man.
It's a weird show, but it's good stuff.
Oh, aqua teen hunger for us.
I don't know.
Yes, no, of course.
Okay.
Yeah, it's fun.
It's hilarious.
I like the show.
Professor excessive weight.
I get it.
Rags, my apartment is above ground.
Movie Bob, me, an intellectual basement apartment.
Yeah.
Like I said, it was just strange to me.
My podcast grows with an awesome length.
It's Jeb tells me to defeat you.
Now take this, my wolf, my rags, and all of my n words.
Objective mauler sword.
Okay.
All your steamboats, huh?
Oh, I'm sure there'll be a super chat that mentions steamboat once I get to the end of this.
List love you, dog daddy.
Thanks for getting me into PC and mauler.
I watch both your videos while at work.
12 hour shifts.
Hey, there you go.
I'm starting to notice that there's a lot of fans in Efap who work long shifts and have long commutes.
It's no coincidence.
I think the long man content has found a long audience.
Yeah, well, see, I have been thoroughly informed that nobody watches this.
Oh, nobody.
All right, guys.
No one would.
No one would.
No one why not.
Why would they do not this?
No one would.
Nobody.
Yeah, it's just too long.
Nobody does that.
It is long, and I think I am going to go to bed.
I appreciate you guys having me on.
No problem, Mr. Ben.
Thanks so much.
People go to bed early.
Thank you so much.
You guys have a great night.
You too.
I have a good night.
Thank you.
Bye bye.
Goodbye.
Bye.
Bet Queen and Slim causes race riots where Joker caused no violence.
Queen and Slim?
What's that?
Anyone in Slim?
Queen and Slim?
Queen and Slim.
Yeah, me.
I'm not sure that is, yeah.
Also, this one just says mauler, sorry, sad face.
No.
No, it's okay.
No.
There are days when my fondest wish is that eugenics hadn't been tated by racists and Nazis.
You call them weekdays.
Diabeto.
You did say that, yeah.
Diabeto.
Don't forget the mad lib super chat from last efap.
Oh, see, we actually sorted that out right at the beginning, didn't we?
That's bullshit.
Sorted it right out.
Nailed it.
What's funny is, like, the last word we used, objectively,
it actually, like, fit in perfectly at the end, objectively speaking.
Oh, yeah.
Maybe he switched them around to make sure it worked perfectly,
but I am okay with either of those results.
Okay.
Occupy Wall Street was subverted by corporations that deployed the progressive stack to kill the
protest.
This fat ass knows nothing about race and protests.
I mean, that wouldn't surprise me, to be honest with you.
You know, nothing.
He says a lot of stuff where you're just like,
Bob, where are you getting that from, Bob?
Explain, Bob.
Has any of you read Movie Bob's book?
It's a diary of a madman.
No.
Oh, God.
His book?
I didn't know that that existed.
Let me...
Movie Bob book.
Um, he's got...
Let me check.
Super Mario Bros. 3, brick by brick.
More than a strategy guide.
Bigger than a retrospective.
Wait, he wrote this?
A whole new look at...
Yeah.
Oh, my goodness.
A whole new look at one of the greatest video games of all time.
Film critic and game journalist Bob Chipman attempts the most in-depth analysis ever of his
all-time favorite game.
It is...
It's only 2.2 out of 5 stars after 110 ratings, so...
Um, why are you guys doing Efap 61?
Efap 62 is coming out.
Well, this is Efap 61, right?
There is no Efap 62 yet.
Lies.
Lies and slander, even though there will be any second with the BBC letting it exist.
We'll get there.
You guys have girls on?
Ew.
Hashtag woman bad.
Oh, I guess you could say woman bad.
It's okay.
Everybody's bad.
That's how it works.
Women's.
Even chat man bad.
Don't forget that Diabito wrote a book.
Oh, wow.
What a coincidence.
Super Mario Bros. 3, Brick by Brick, where he revealed he literally wants to be Mario
and pretends he is Mario often.
Oh, my God.
Is this true?
He reveals he wants to be Mario.
Oh, well, you know, whatever works.
Keep in mind, by movie Bob's logic, he cannot possibly like Ghostbusters 2016,
since it was primarily a carbon copy of the acryoid one.
I mean, I'm sure you would spin something.
I don't think I ever saw a video from him on Ghostbusters 2016.
I'm sure he made one.
Um, wouldn't surprise me.
Also, I'm gonna have to say we probably stop there.
We've only got a minute left.
I want to make sure it doesn't bleed over too much to where it gets cut.
Thank you all so much for watching and for the memes and the very kind donations
and the guests for coming on for as long as all of you did.
All relevant links are in the description.
And I'm sorry we didn't get to all the super chats.
We will carry them on on the Sunday Efap, which will be 11 p.m. GMT.
Gonna be doing one of them Australian ones.
And yeah, I think we will.
We're not going to we'll probably do like no memes on that stream
and go straight into super chats and try and get this all caught up.
So yeah, just a couple of days, folks.
And we'll we'll see you there.
Anything else you guys want to say before we close out?
I don't do it for me.
Yeah, I think I think I'm all set.
Sorry, I had to take off for a while.
I am super tired right now, though.
Yeah, same for me.
And since we're running out of seconds, we literally go.
I love you guys. Bye, everybody.
It's been a lot of fun. Bye bye.
He punches bad men.
