Hey, guys, we ought to pretend to like each other now.
Three, two, one.
Hi, guys.
I'm sure we've got a few seconds to put up with this.
Oh, hey, everyone.
So welcome to happy, happy fun time.
We all love each other here.
Oh, this is crazy.
Please never.
Never do it again.
But yes.
Are we pretending like we like each other right now?
I'm sorry, we're already live.
You can't say it while they're watching.
Oh, sorry, sorry.
Oh, yeah, I was going to say as well,
we've got there's a couple of memes prepared.
The 3D meme is done, guys, by the way,
the one I was telling you about.
The 3D meme.
Oh, the 3D EFEV meme is completed.
And the guy who made it has even given me links
to check out the models that he made in the thing.
So it'll be cool to fuck around with that.
But again, I was thinking we're going to have plenty to talk
about, and these guys are like veterans
of talking about things.
So we don't actually, I figure it's
going to be too difficult to explain
all the history of the memes.
And we'll probably save memes for when
we've got a guest who's like anyone
from the Great British Podcast who's more insane than we are
or like Jay, so they totally understand.
It's always felt bad looking back
that Jay Logboat watched somebody with us
and she would have just been like, what the fuck
is any of this?
Yeah, I think I was like wheezing about to die.
And she was like, take a breath.
You OK?
You're like, no.
I wonder how many people are like, what the fuck
is Jeremy's avatar?
What the fuck?
Yeah, we'll settle this.
Is that an elephant?
Or is it a turtle?
I think it's an elephant and I think Rags is dumb.
Oof.
Big fruit and flames.
I can talk.
I talk all the time.
Talking is a damn thing you've ever heard.
He's not going to understand what you mean by that, Rags.
I know what you mean, you literal piece of shit.
But he's not going to know what you mean.
That flew right over Wolf's head.
I don't know.
Maybe if Wolf wasn't so dumb, we'd get it.
What am I not getting?
OK, so do you know when someone's like, this is just for Wolf.
You know when someone says you're like blind, deaf, and dumb.
Have I heard that phrase?
Yeah.
Like blind means you can't see, obviously.
Deaf means can't feel.
I know what all three of them mean.
Yeah.
Do you?
No, you don't.
Yes.
Then I don't know why you're now working for blind, deaf, and dumb means.
Yes, I know the definition.
Wait, wait.
What does dumb mean?
Tune in next week.
Click on the link because now, I mean, you can use it in two different ways.
Can't you?
OK, wait, wait.
Go through the two different ways.
Go for it.
Dumb meaning like unintelligent and dumb meaning like kind of slow.
No.
No, he lied.
I would like to refer everybody back to what Wolf said.
I know what they mean.
We got memes in the making.
Is that not what they mean?
Googling.
Google dumb.
In fairness, I don't blame you for not knowing this by the way.
Which you probably often do.
Temporary.
No, temporarily, unable, or willing to speak.
Really?
That's what it means.
Best intro ever.
Wolf letting what dumb mean.
We're on a high quality production here.
What the fuck?
I have literally never heard dumb used in that context.
Yeah.
Because maybe you're deaf.
That's why you never heard it.
What I was trying to say.
So it was like, yeah, blind, deaf, and dumb means.
Can't see, can't hear, can't speak.
Does deaf not mean that you can't hear?
That is what it means.
What?
Yes.
OK.
God damn it.
I'm confused now.
It's like my whole world's falling apart now
that I don't realize what dumb actually meant.
I'm not saying you have to be a doctor or anything.
Yeah.
But you literally.
And it's just blown your entire world, Wolf.
Yeah.
Fuck.
Do you know what that means?
Got it.
Do you know?
I'm pretty sure.
Well, it can be used in like 100 different ways.
So I'm pretty sure you'll get a definition correct.
I feel better about Wolf calling me out now.
Yes.
There's someone in the chat said Galaxy Brain Wolf.
Galaxy Brain Wolf.
Yeah, I learned that from Troy.
I remember asking my dad what dumb meant
because they use it in a context in there
that couldn't mean that he's stupid.
I was like, what does it mean?
He was like, oh, it's like when you can't talk or whatever.
It's like a medical team.
I was like, oh, wow.
The movie, Troy?
Or?
Yeah.
I think I can.
My friend from down the street, Troy.
Well, I didn't know if he meant something else
that I wasn't aware of.
You don't know what words mean.
We've established this.
Oh, shut the fuck up.
You didn't know what tactile meant.
Yes, I did.
That's why I was confused by it.
That's why it confused me.
None of us knew what he meant by that.
It's like, I understand this word,
but the way he's using it doesn't make sense.
And it doesn't make sense, which is why it was confusing.
Oh, wow.
Troy came out 15 years ago, guys.
You know what else came out 15 years ago?
I haven't seen that.
Halo 2.
That is curious.
What is your what is your opinions on Troy?
Because I love Troy.
I like it.
Dude, Troy has probably one of the best like dual scenes.
Yes.
That actor is fucking great.
Hey, well, did you know that did you
know that dual has multiple meanings?
If the one on one fight, but it can also mean like two things.
Like, no, that's a different word.
Dual and dual.
There's no homophones.
E L and D.
They're homophones.
They're homophobes.
How could you say that, Rags?
They're homophobes.
Yeah, they're homophobes.
They're homophobic.
Wait, what?
The words are homophobic.
If you have dual, if you have dual game in,
who are having sex, then that's a homophobe.
Why would you say dual game?
Isn't that the two of them?
Dual and dual.
Isn't that the difference?
You have dual game in.
Oh, you're saying because I spoke it
that I could have been either of those.
The bed is dual wielding to gay men who are having sex.
So that means the word is a homophobe.
And in fairness, well, if we can't say anything,
he's been English teaching us a lot.
I am really wielding it, though.
Yeah, it's carrying them.
But what if the bed breaks?
Well, what if your hand breaks and you're carrying something?
What the fuck is happening?
If your hand breaks while you're trying to lift something,
the thing you're trying to lift is probably going to fall.
Probably.
What happens to the gay man on the broken bed?
They fall.
As I've got a lot of experience being a gay man on a broken bed
because I broke the bed because I'm just that much of a fucking animal.
So I'll tell you all about it.
What happens is you fall in the middle because the bed breaks in the middle.
Every single God.
What if you're not in the middle, though?
Oh, I'm always in the middle when I can be.
But when you come, I mean, yeah, I'm not.
So if the bed breaks and you're on the side, you're on.
You fall. That depends.
Sometimes the bed breaks this way and everyone tilts forward.
And sometimes it breaks on the side and you roll off the side.
If you're fucking on one side of the bed, the other side isn't going to fuck.
Like magically break.
That's not necessarily true.
You don't know where the weak spots of the bed are.
Oh, in that case, just lying on it would have the same amount of.
No, never mind. No, that's not true at all.
Urgent.
I know you've never I understand.
Maybe you've never broken any beds in your lifetime with your your your gay romances.
But I can guarantee you that when you're just laying there,
not much is happening in that case.
I'm not even interested.
By the way, just if you ever were curious about how in just retarded
a podcast is, yeah, there you go.
That was a crash.
I was a smaller smaller.
I am literally shaking right now.
It's not our guests already.
You can't put you up in a box.
It's not it's not boxable.
You can't put a gay man in a box either.
You can try not be contained.
But yeah, what I should just may as well now is hello, Chad.
Was the five twenty nine and our our guests on this wonderful episode.
Is it, I guess, geeks and gamers slash
your first and last appearance on Eve.
Jeremy from Geeks and Games.
How do you do say?
I'm doing it really good.
I feel right at home with this discussion.
These are the things I can't say on my channel or everyone.
You're going to be a breaker.
Oh, we we legit like we know we're pushing the limits.
Like we're going to get booted off YouTube eventually.
No, but it's because that would be homophobic.
That's true. That's true.
True. Thank you, too.
Gas mask for us.
Well, like I said, I mean, gay Twitter is already trying to get me banned.
So this this episode will either help or hurt either way.
If I can get banned from Twitter, it will be a great thing for me.
It's a truth because I hate Twitter.
I hate it. Yeah. Finally be productive.
Is it there's a guy I know who literally considers his blue check marks.
He got it really early on.
He considers it now like a blight on his profile.
He's like, I don't want it anymore.
It's like, oh, it'd be.
No, I don't. I don't want one either.
I don't. I mean, at this point, having having a checkmark on Twitter,
it's just like I would feel obligated to have to go to Trump's Twitter
just to respond to him just because I'd have a checkmark,
because that's all it is, is checkmarks, trying to get more followers
by responding to Trump.
I just can't I don't want one.
If they try to offer me one, I'm going to be like
the barstool sports founder, Dave Portnoy.
He's got about almost a million followers.
And every barstool account has a checkmark, except for his personal one.
And he literally told Twitter to shove it up their ass.
He didn't want it.
So that's how I'm going to if they ever offer me one, I don't want it.
And on our second guest as a as a combo is is Jeff from world class bullshit.
How are you doing, sir?
I'm doing well. Thanks for having me.
It's been a while since we've talked.
It has. Well, what did we what was the plan?
We were going to talk about something else, right?
Did we talk about solo? Did that happen?
I feel like we did. Yeah.
I messaged you on New Year's Eve.
I was messaging all the people that we worked with over on the channel
at right around New Year's Eve at midnight.
And you and I agreed that we'd get together in April.
So maybe we'll still always get together for the Avengers and talk about.
Right. Right.
I'll definitely want to talk about that, because like, you know, solo.
I mean, most people don't even remember it exists anymore.
So it's fine.
Every once in a while, I get remanded. Remember, I mean, there we go.
Let's go here and go right there.
But yeah, you know, episode nine, we're still have on that spill of crap.
Like episode nine might come and go.
And we're still only talking about The Last Jedi,
just because of how it broke everything.
And rightly so. It's a piece of shit. Absolutely.
But yeah, it's good to have you guys here.
We're it's like a combo of sort of of different podcasts, right?
You guys run the high council together, sort of, right?
I'm vaguely aware of all these things, my dudes.
No, it's not the not like that rag.
Jesus. I don't even know if it's legal for them.
You get them in trouble.
God, our initials are THC.
So it works out quite nice.
You got your license for your smoking license.
Change that to literally anything.
And then it applies in Britain.
Bad, huh? Unplaced to live right now.
We've just made a joke of.
You just had a discussion last night.
We did a hot fuzz commentary for the Patreon.
And I said, I used to want to go there for the longest time.
But all this new political stuff in the UK,
I'll just stay away for a while until it blows over.
Yeah, once we get whatever the hell's going on with Brexit,
sort of, but you're so neither here nor there.
It's there for us. Yeah, I know.
I don't even I used it as a phrase rags.
It's here for you, but it's there for us.
So it's actually wrong.
It's it's not just neither here or there.
It's both here and there.
Maybe that's what I said.
And you misheard me. How about that?
I don't think I did there for everyone that's in the correct country.
I think we can rewind the tape.
Everyone knows dog hearing is is is faulty at best.
Is super acute.
Much like my face, it's a cute face.
You look like you're like a wordsmith today, are you?
I'm sorry if that's the angle I'm taking, but we're going there.
I'm sorry, the words there are things that all adds up.
There is something to address.
I don't know.
Wolf, calm, calm yourself down.
This isn't even about Jay, by the way.
This is just something that be nice, be nice.
All right. So in the last podcast, this is this is something we can discuss.
All right. Calm down.
Last podcast, it was complained about that.
You gave up a spoiler about Game of Thrones.
That being, I feel like it's that John Snow died.
But that happened like five years ago.
Get out now. See, so the you're supposed to calm, calm way.
They're very sensitive about this.
So I was going to say, like, this is a spoiler from May of 2016.
He comes back to life three episodes later. It's OK, everyone.
So the other problem is a friend of mine was like, he told me
that people are very upset about it, that I was like, that's a spoiler of 2016.
He's like, no, it's not.
And I was like, I'll check the episodes.
And he's like, no, no, no, no.
Is this 2009 spoiler because it came out in the book then.
OK, OK. And so the the hypocrisy they pointed out,
apparently, was that we complained that there's a lot of channels
that will put huge spoilers for like brand new games or films
in thumbnails and titles to get people to click stuff.
And so it's like, how can you complain about that?
Yeah, fuck those people while giving away spoilers.
And I was going to say, I think the comparison we probably
we were probably talking about stuff that's released like within the week.
Yeah, like within the week.
I know when like Far Cry New Dawn came out,
there is a channel video game sophistry and they they're run by a bunch of SJW.
So I keep track of them so that when they say something retarded, I'm on it.
But they are like a little bitty channel.
And sometimes they'll get really big videos
because all they do is essentially take the cut scenes of new games
and just put them on YouTube and they'll say, this is what happens in this cut scene.
And the spoiler whether you even click on the video, it's a spoiler.
It's right there is like this character dies.
This character comes back.
You do this task.
I remember also awakens when that came out.
The second it was out, like people were spamming Han Solo dies
everywhere all over the Internet.
It was like a meme to spoil it.
And so I saw someone with a bumper sticker saying Han Solo dies.
And that's how I found out before I like I was literally driving to work
and I saw that and I was like, fuck, are you kidding me?
I was literally I was streaming on Twitch.
I was going to see it the day it came out.
And some guy came in and said, Han Solo dies.
I was like, OK, thanks.
Did you not see that one coming?
No, no, that's the thing.
I thought he was going to die anyway.
But when you get told it, that means there's no chance it's not happening.
So he's like, OK.
Definitely happening when IMDB existed.
Well, when it had forms, somebody posted screenshots
of like a bootleg or something of him getting stabbed on that catwalk.
So I had that confirmed early on.
So I had my damn ticket.
I mean, it's mostly it's the fact that it exists as a film.
It makes it basically confirms his death.
He's like, oh, he's not going to be in it unless he's killed off.
Right. That's probably it.
But that's Harrison Ford.
Yeah. And so I wonder, as comparison, it's like that came out in 2015.
So is it spoiler territory if we talk about Han Solo Big Dead?
And I'm like, what's the limit here?
Because if I had because people were suggesting that we say, OK, spoilers,
you know, mute and we're going to talk about or to put it in post
like in the description, like spoils, I always felt like, yeah,
I always felt like spoilers, like if you are on the Internet watching
in a movie or an entertainment based show or listening to an Internet
payment podcast, if the film or show has been out for, say.
East, I don't think you can worry about spoilers.
You're not that invested if you haven't watched it after a year.
The unfortunate thing is, apparently, this guy was like a couple of episodes
away from the spoiler.
Ah, I just happened to be watching this like, OK, in my defense,
I got it spoiled for me before I saw it.
So now I do the rest of you to get it spoiled, too.
So I did too. So maybe I'm a heartless fucker and I just like, hey,
I got spoiled for me. I knew it was happening before it happened.
I didn't get to experience it.
Just like the the only one that he did was that was actually good.
Well, the first one, Sixth Sense, I that entire movie got spoiled for me.
I never got to experience it for what it was.
But I also knew the outcome to Fight Club and I still loved it.
Yeah, yeah, it happens.
I we always spoil.
Well, I don't really spoil it.
We tell you a whole movie in a review and we go, all right, well,
this is the point where we spoil it and stay around with your own fault.
So well, yeah, just say it only takes a moment to say spoiler territory
from here on out. Click away if you don't want spoilers.
But like, are we going to the problem is like if we bounce in between examples
or references, we're not going to be like, OK, spoilers for this.
I'm going to say the spoilers for this.
So so if we yeah, we can talk about like the classics.
And I doubt if we say Rosebud's the sled,
everyone's going to get really fucking pissed off.
And that's right.
All the ones we just referenced, they're all like classic spoilers.
And they could be someone like way.
I was halfway through the sixth sense.
And you guys happened to fucking say that shit.
You're like, oh, sorry.
Well, I thought the sixth sense was so fucking predictable.
I knew what the twist was going to be like before the halfway point.
Do you have a sixth sense?
Maybe that's what it means.
I mean, I like the movie.
It's just like I was halfway less than halfway through.
And I was like, he's dead, isn't it?
Did you know that sense is like a homophone for sense?
By the way, everyone, Bruce Willis is dead in the sixth sense, the whole movie.
And so I was going to say, what's the color guys?
If Gandalf comes back to life in the second.
I actually haven't seen those movies.
Lord of the Rings. What?
Oh, my God. Do I need to scream at somebody else again?
Hold on. Oh, God.
I went. Oh, my goodness.
I'm like, I cannot express Lord of the Rings fanboy in the history of anything.
So I find it sinful that you haven't watched those films.
I'm a sinner, but and they sent me the extended editions on Blu-ray.
So when I get back from Star Wars Celebration, I'm going to sit down and watch them.
So good.
You should only watch the extended editions because there's a word
taking the fan's word on it.
I want to see the guy who said it's OK that people haven't seen things.
Come on. It's OK.
Like I'm like morally, but like socially, it's not acceptable.
Ever once have I run into anybody that says, oh, let's talk about Lord of the Rings anymore.
So really anymore.
But they are phenomenal.
Yeah, because they assume that everybody has seen it, seen it and talked about it.
Yeah, I heard you're in for some fun.
I could really watch all three of those films
like several times a month and have for like the past 10 years.
You're insane.
They're the peak of movie making.
They are the peak of filmmaking for a trilogy.
It's unbelievable.
Yeah, you're going to love it, Jeff.
They are.
I love Star Wars, but Lord of the Rings smashes it for a consistency.
Yeah, I think I think objectively those movies are damn near perfect.
I mean, you know, they're going to hear an argument from Wolf on that.
Yeah, I mean, I guess that's an easy leaded.
So Jay put out on Twitter the other day.
He's got he's someone we're trying to get to watch Lord of the Rings.
He hasn't seen movies, really.
He's seen like three, maybe four, three and a half.
This this fucking piece of shit.
He watches the first Lord of the Rings movie and then he doesn't watch the sequels.
And it's like, what?
Like my brain like broke when I heard it would be like watching Empire and just stopping.
Like that's the level of cliffhanger you get at the end of the fellowship.
So it's really odd.
Fellowship has a better cliffhanger.
You know, that broke has multiple meanings.
We should not do this right now, right?
So Jay put out a tweet saying,
just completed a trilogy of films that Elijah Wood stars in.
And and obviously people were like, oh, cool.
He was like spy kids that he put up.
Oh, I haven't seen those either.
You don't have to see that.
I haven't.
I haven't seen those.
So I figured that maybe Jay should stay away from Wolf for a few days, weeks is.
Yeah, he not.
He Jay Jay Jay.
You will watch this, by the way.
He said he was interested.
So I think just just pretend he's listening and give a message.
No, I am analyzing the chat.
I know his fucking profile picture.
Oh, no, he's asleep right now.
He says he's in watch a layer.
Oh, hey, we're going to be on here for like 11 hours.
I'll find him.
The second he pops up, like, there you are, you little fucker.
Just watching the chat the whole time, waiting for it.
You'll get there one day and it'll run.
Jay Wolf has the high ground.
So so certainly before we jump into the video, I want to cover
there's going to be two movies that are worth mentioning.
Right. And one of them came out recently.
Good old girl MCU.
Well, we'll jump into that in a second.
But I figure any anyone want any of this?
That movie about the guy who controls fish.
Anyone want to?
Yeah. What why would we want to talk about that crocodile hunter?
Look at all that.
Did you just what did you just say?
Rags crocodile hunter, Steve Irwin, the crocodile hunter.
Yeah. What did you say about?
What did you say about our lord and savior, Steve Irwin?
I didn't actually say anything about it.
I didn't really.
I didn't mention any of his skills, talents or attributes yet.
You better not be fucking on my on my boy, Steve Irwin.
It's going to be tough to come after Rags for Grandma.
Anything he's a very careful man.
You've got to wait here to the year.
I enjoyed watching Steve Irwin, crocodile hunter.
Well, just reading your sentences very slowly.
Like, yeah, that's OK.
That's OK.
You haven't said anything yet.
Hey, so I've seen Waterman.
Have you seen Waterman Rags?
Aqua Homo. No, no, no, I can't say that anymore.
It's against the law.
It means man not to be confused with the Greek, which is same,
which is why we have like homophone
or the Latin weir, which also means like what did everyone think of that?
That movie.
Did everyone hear it?
Love Doc McMan.
I loved it.
I'm sure everyone saw that on Wolf's channel.
Did you manage to see Wolf's video?
He does. He does throw about 10,000 criticisms of that movie.
Yes, I did.
I did see the whole video, but I mean, I saw like, so
I I was I was on Twitter and Anna, that Star Wars girl
who watches you guys all the time.
She's a big fan and she sends me a link to to his video.
And I didn't know it was was him.
She just said, hey, you need to check this out.
And I was like, all right, I'll check it out soon.
She goes, you're not going to like it.
But I agree with him.
And and I was like, all right, you know.
And I just figured it's one of these YouTubers.
It's got like 200 subscribers that are, you know, calling me every day.
Well, one would think, but it turns out he's actually kind of popular.
So I clicked on it and I'm like, fuck,
I really don't want to deal with Wolfen Mahler.
What the fuck? Shit.
So I'll watch it.
And I'm like, I'm the literally the first thing you see when you click on his video.
There I am. I love Doc O'Man, damn it, man.
So I watched it.
I think I watched about the first 10, 12 minutes of it.
And. I really don't want to fight with these guys, but I've got to respond.
I got to respond, because this is what I do.
And we'll just have to see what happens.
And so I made my my very sarcastic asshole response.
And, you know, Wolf responded in the same fashion, which I appreciated.
So now we're good, you know.
But yeah, you clicked on it pretty quick.
You're like, damn, that was quicker than I thought.
And then then you sent me a long email and I was like, God damn,
his emails are just as long as this video shit.
But but yeah, ultimately, what comes out with Aquaman is it's expectations for me.
I fucking hate Man of Steel and I hate Batman Superman.
And I wanted to love Man of Steel.
Man of Steel was like I'm a big Christopher Nolan fan.
So they fooled me with like putting Christopher Nolan's name all over the marketing.
I'm like, shit, yeah, this is going to be Superman's Dark Knight movie.
You know, and so he was involved with it.
Is the reason that movie exists, because what's his name?
I always forget his name.
The guy that wrote The Dark Knight with him also did Blade 3.
What's his name?
Goyer, right?
David S. Goyer.
Yes. Yeah.
Yeah. So Goyer came to Nolan with the idea on the Dark Knight Rises set.
And Nolan took it to Warner Brothers.
And of course, they'll do anything Nolan said.
So Nolan's the reason Man of Steel actually got greenlit.
And then he was involved with Cavill and bringing Snyder on and everything.
So I went into Man of Steel just thinking this is going to be the Superman movie
that I've always wanted. And of course, I love Superman.
I love the the Reeve Superman movies.
But Man of Steel, it took me like three or four times for me to convince myself
that it was a shit movie, and it's not really as bad of a movie
as it's a bad Superman movie.
I think if you look at it from the perspective of being an alien
coming to Earth and trying to find his way, it's not a bad movie.
It's a fucking terrible Superman movie.
Like like Coneheads?
Ah, that's the classic right there.
I wouldn't expect rags to reference Coneheads.
I like that.
If there's anything I know, it's the shape of heads.
All I remember from Man of Steel was I saw it with my friends
and they came out saying, you know what, that fucking when he broke Zod's neck,
that was they just apparently that lost them that moment in the film.
And I'm not a Superman fan, hugely.
So I remember not understanding it then.
And I still don't know.
What is the take for Man of Steel as a whole?
I haven't seen it since since it came out, which is what, like 2000?
Like 13.
Yeah, 13. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, generally speaking,
yeah, generally speaking from what I hear a lot of people that say
I never liked Superman until I saw Man of Steel.
I'm like, well, good, because it's not a fucking Superman movie.
So a lot of people like Superman was always boring.
I couldn't relate to him.
He was always overpowered, yada, yada, yada,
until I saw Man of Steel and he became relatable.
Why? Because he watched his fucking dad die.
Like, it's not Superman.
Doesn't he like choose not to save him to protect his identity?
Yeah, his dad just like waves him off in a tornado.
It's like it's like the opposite of relatable.
He like he doesn't save his dad so he can save his dog
who's dead in the next scene anyway.
It's like, oh, great. Spoilers.
Wow, you ruined 2000.
Oh, who cares?
OK, so here's the thing.
The dog's dead.
Just to save the dog and the dog dies anyway.
And so does the dad.
And then it shows like a different dog to add insult to injury.
And it's like, wow, imagine if you just saved your dad
so you won't have to deal with another dog instead.
I really don't remember that.
Reludes. They're trying to tell the whole bunch of these characters
in a new refreshing way, and it just never works.
Isn't Henry out, by the way?
He's not doing Superman anymore.
It's not confirmed, but again, I don't think they know anything
about what they're doing at DC right now.
It's just it's a very like one day Ben Affleck is directing, writing
and producing the Batman.
The next day he's I'm just going to star in it.
The next day he's in Alcoholics Anonymous.
Then he's back on Batman.
Then he's going to divorce.
If he's in Alcoholics Anonymous,
kind of defeats the purpose of being in Alcoholics Anonymous.
If we're like, oh, yeah, he was in that.
He was in that like movie.
So but to get it back to like so then I hated Man of Steel.
I hated Batman Superman, and I ended up while I think Suicide Squad
is an objectively terrible film, there were parts of it
that I found to be enjoyable, at least.
And then I loved Wonder Woman.
And so going into Aquaman, I just had really low expectations
for a DCEU movie.
I don't think Aquaman is a great movie by any means,
but I enjoyed it with all of its flaws.
And so that's kind of where I stand on it.
I had fun with it,
but I was laughing at a lot of it like.
Yeah, it didn't take itself overly serious, which is what I liked about it.
It's fun to fuck an ugly bitch, too.
What was that?
I have to ask, why would you take a laser rifle
and convert it into a helmet that shoots where you look?
Like stick.
If he was on my team, I would be like, dude, you put it.
Stop looking at me.
Fucking hell, stop. Don't look at me.
Whenever he talks to people, he has to look up because like,
yeah, I won't hit you, don't worry.
Yeah.
Somebody sent a super chat that's perfectly Julio says
to comment on your take on Man of Steel, Mueller, Zach Snyder took
as much creative care for Superman's character as Ryan Johnson did.
Luke Skywalker.
I'd say Ryan Johnson did worse, but they're in the same neighborhood.
I don't know if I'd go that far.
Ryan Johnson destroyed Luke Skywalker, not only in that movie, but his legacy.
Superman can bounce back Luke Skywalker.
Yes, we might have a reboot of sorts, I suppose.
Probably reboot Luke Skywalker at this point,
because he's he is Mark Hamill.
Like to be weird.
Oh, we tried to Han Solo and that didn't work.
Oh, I did watch a little bit of solo finally, and it's very boring.
Very, very boring.
It's not time.
You just take men.
Yeah, it's it's not as it's not as offensive as the last Jedi or anything,
but it's just boring.
Like, that's our standard for Disney movies.
Is how offensive it was to the characters.
Well, do you guys find this like I find with our sort of fan base?
Typically, Rogue One is looked at much kindly,
much more kindly than than any of the other three.
Well, very much so easily.
What do you think the reason is for that?
Because it's close enough to the old Star Wars and it doesn't
disrespect or retell.
Basically, it's not a reboot like The Force Awakens,
and it's not bad like The Last Jedi.
It's. I think if there was something different that came before and after it,
we might even look at that one differently.
But because of what is surrounding it, I think we look at it much kinder.
I think it's literally just because the last half hour was genuinely great
and everything else about it is like utterly forgettable.
Man, did I love watching Veda slash down a series of rebels was just glorious.
I actually like that part, but my favorite part was the space battle
because it looked like a new hope, which was going to take place two days later.
So yeah, I was very much like, I don't know, I got a feeling of like,
oh, that's so cool when they had all the old pilots in the actual ships.
That might be my favorite part of that movie,
because it's like a lot of people be like, oh, that's pandering.
And I'd be like, it's what would be happening.
These people would be there.
Just like Veda would be there.
She I remember her look kind of like porcelain in that movie.
Oh, that's just a cocaine.
It's your eyes that work, not everything else.
It's easy.
Rogue One is easily the the the best received film of the Disney movies.
But I think that The Force Awakens initially was easily the most beloved.
But The Last Jedi, there was people that didn't like The Force Awakens
from the beginning, Jeff is one of them.
You know, obviously, I've been a defender of that movie until The Last Jedi happened.
And like I told you guys, like The Last Jedi for the people that still defend
The Force Awakens, The Last Jedi exposed how how many problems there were
within The Force Awakens and now the people that.
Is now don't care about it anymore, because The Last Jedi
showed how flawed of a movie it was.
And so because of that, now people look back at Rogue One in isolation and go,
yeah, that's easily the best Disney Star Wars movie.
And I don't like Rogue One that much.
Like a lot of people, like people talking about the Millennium Falcon
moment in Force Awakens, like when I was going through that for my videos,
everybody just says it's just good.
It's just great. It's just amazing.
It's just so well.
It's just so well paced.
It's so perfect. It's just so good.
And you're like, why?
Why is it just because it's the Millennium Falcon?
They're like, oh, no, no, no, it's because the reveal is perfect. Why?
But because.
Yeah, because you ate women.
What do you mean?
Sorry.
For years after watching that movie, instantly,
I had these feelings like you do in all your videos,
and I just had to spend like two and a half years of people around me gushing
about a really terrible movie that a lot of people, thankfully, have waken up to.
I think the nostalgia for Star Wars is incredibly powerful
because like not even the MCU can generate that kind of thing, really.
It's like the most you get is like Iron Man nostalgia from 2008, which isn't that far.
We're talking like people watching this shit when they were
like five years old plus all the way up to 30s and 40s now, being like,
that's that's the one that I love.
Then you go, wait, wait, wait, wait a minute.
I need to think about this for a second.
Like the dangly keys thing, you know, and yeah, you know,
props to you for seeing right through it because I certainly didn't.
I was just enjoying the spectacle for what it was,
which I'm pretty sure was exactly what JJ was trying to do.
But could have been well written, too. I think so.
You could have a little of your you could have all your dangly
keys moments while also, you know, not fucking everything up.
I think if you like a new hope, like I do, a lot of it was transparent.
And maybe that's why I was, you know, so aware of it, maybe hyper aware.
But well, a lot of people's initial takes involved the fact
that it was a repeat, but the thing that I was just like, it's not just a repeat.
They just they poorly copy it.
They don't just copy it.
It's not like it's a if it was a direct copy, it probably would have been better
because they would have been more coherent.
But there's so much about the film that just, you know, you just confused
like just the fact that you just think about the Kylo's Star Destroyer
is just hanging out outside of Jakku the entire time.
The Millennium Falcon is being chased, working on its
we call it compressor on arrives.
They deal with the wrath.
It's like, what's Kylo Star Destroyer doing this whole time?
It's waiting.
Then that's the thing.
Like in the old ones, the second they lift off from Tatooine,
the Star Destroyers are chasing them.
It's like, oh, because the empire actually like was competent.
I don't know.
Seems to be the only thing at TARS.
One of my biggest TARS up.
Oh, my God.
Such a terrible scene.
Well, my big complaint was like, OK, so Return of the Jedi
was the perfect ending for this.
It just everything was resolved to a degree.
I mean, Vader ended.
Luke became a Jedi Han and Leia got their shit worked out.
And then you had 35 years of well, not 32 years of, you know,
expanded universe books and all this stuff.
It was Star Wars was in a good place.
But this instantly retconned a lot of that, which, you know,
pissed off a lot of people.
But it also built up a lot of questions that they never answer.
Like the part that pisses me off that I make fun of almost in every video
is when Maz Kanata has Luke Skywalker's lightsaber.
She's like, that's a story for another time.
What?
It's like winks that you can just, you know, walk off on.
You kind of have to acknowledge that or like, where's the empire?
How did they get back?
You know, I know they're the first order, but like all these things were brought up.
And then as a fan, like Jeremy and I and you guys can all see that
it was just brought back to mirror the old ones to get you to feel a certain way
to buy it.
And yeah, it worked, I guess, for
a lot like the general public, I guess.
But it's just like I said, I feel like the veil got lifted.
Or was it? Do you just think that the Last Jedi was just too bad
to be able to bank on the same sort of
benefits of the Force Awakens got in terms of people not really noticing the cracks?
Like it was just too awfully written because so many people came out of the cinema
just like that was fucking terrible.
That I think it's both, honestly.
I mean, because I think a lot of red.
No, no, I was just going to say, I think that the a lot of us, myself included,
were really banking on the Last Jedi,
justifying a lot of the unanswered questions or plot holes in The Force Awakens.
Why is Ray so good at everything?
You know, yada, yada, yada.
And when that didn't happen, it was kind of like.
Jeff had already come to grips.
People like Jeff walked out of the Force Awakens in a shit movie,
you know, where I, someone like me and a lot of people, there were a lot of people
like me like, oh, The Force Awakens is so great and the Star Wars is back.
And then we go and watch The Last Jedi.
Somebody like Jeff initially is like, The Last Jedi is shit.
Me, I'm just like, OK, OK, OK, this is a good movie.
This is this is a good movie.
There's no way they made a Star Wars movie that's this bad.
You know, I like this movie.
It just it took time for me to kind of really accept it.
Not only is The Last Jedi shit.
It's The Force Awakens irrelevant now.
Like it's completely fucked two movies and the effects of the return of the Jedi.
It's fucked.
It's fucked 40 years of movies and episode nine.
I don't even care about episode nine, like it's such a huge problem.
The Last Jedi is a massive problem.
So I think that there was just there was a there was different layers
for different people and how they were perceiving it.
I think some people initially that the people that were against
The Force Awakens walked in and walked out and that was terrible.
Other people went through the phases like I did, you know, like, God damn,
you know, like, Mueller, you said you kind of enjoyed TFA at first,
but then you kind of really came to grips with it, right?
It was I never gave it a critical eye.
Honestly, let it pass because I was such a really sort of doughy
stools fad at heart where I just let everything slide.
TLJ broke the scale.
It was like how fucking I think.
Wolf, I think you feel the same way on this sort of.
But like TLJ made me realize how much I care about Luke Skywalker,
where I previously didn't actually know consciously how much I hear that character.
Because I would always be like, oh, I'd like Star Wars.
I love Luke Skywalker.
But the Last Jedi kind of put it into perspective
how much I cared about Star Wars and Luke Skywalker, because I was like
betrayed by watching that film.
And yeah, like TLJ, you know, it shits on the originals.
Definitely. It contradicts itself.
So like fans of the movie alone will still have trouble with it.
Fans of the OT will have trouble with it.
But I think it probably one of the biggest nails in it was probably that it
counters TFA as well, which is something that maybe a slot right now
wouldn't necessarily care to consider a huge flaw in the grand scheme of things
because the OT damage is much worse.
But all the people who love the TFA are like, huh?
Well, shit.
Yeah, you know, and it's it's creating enemies left, right and center,
which is quite quite a feat.
You know, well, everybody.
Go ahead.
Take pleasure in that, that it's ruined Star Wars in a certain way.
That makes you one of the fandom menace.
Yeah. Yeah.
So I was going to say as well, do you guys are not happy currently
with with the MCU or
Captain Marvel, right?
But there was a was there a prediction that it wouldn't do very well,
but it's sort of like it's blown that out from what I've heard.
Not on any of our channels.
Yeah, completely completely misrepresented.
I don't think it was ever going to do bad, especially if you go to the movie theater
and you don't have a block in choice, what movie you're going to see?
I don't know this for sure.
But the only film I know from the MCU specifically
that's actually managed to not make its money back is like, was it The Incredible Hulk?
I don't even think that was a failure.
I think it made its money.
I'll look it up.
I think The Incredible Hulk made its money.
I think I think it made a small profit.
I Edward Norton was removed because he's difficult.
He's one of the most difficult actors in history to work with from all accounts.
But as far as the the Captain Marvel stuff,
I consistently said that it will open strong.
It's an MCU movie.
It's it's coming off of Infinity War because Captain Marvel is mentioned
at the end of Infinity War and it's leading us into endgame.
It will open strong.
There's no doubt about it.
I said the the lowest it would do was 85 million.
But I said I consider I'll probably be around 100, 120 million.
Now, I did say I hope it fails and I it deserves to fail because the identity
politics marketing and all the stuff real artists are saying.
But to Marvel movie and the general public doesn't listen to all this shit
that we talk about, you know, they just see Marvel.
They see, you know, Nick Fury and they want to go see the movie.
So is it just here that or is there anything else that you sort of?
Because I was just going to say, like, is it the fault of all the people involved?
If one stupid actress has a bunch of nonsense sort of thing?
Yeah, well, I'm not anti MCU.
I'm just anti Captain Marvel and Brie Larson.
And only one that got stuck seeing it.
So I have even more problems.
Oh, oh, I saw it too, though.
Well, you know, the Phantom Menace over here, this corner of it.
Yeah, that movie.
I was I wasn't even bothered.
I was pissed off what Brie Larson said, because it kind of just splits the fan base.
And we just went through this with Star Wars.
Yeah, that's unnecessary.
Kind of reaffirms it.
And that's another problem I had, too, because they kept pushing
Captain Marvel's The Future.
She's the most powerful. She's this. She's that.
I'm like, character wise, no one gives a shit about her.
Let us get to this next one, then introduce her and then make her, you know, whatever.
But yeah, dude, she should turn up the end of end game when everything's over.
She should be like, I'm here.
And like, like, who are you?
All right, here are the keys.
We're out.
Yeah, you look after the what's left.
I think what Jeremy and I always harp on to is like the long game of the MCU.
If you sour fans now, you're going to not be able to have another
10 years and 21 movies if you keep going this route.
Because we know these identity politics don't play indefinitely.
They're representative of the time the movie's made and when they market it.
But then you look back and, you know, it's like bad haircuts or bad clothing.
You're kind of like, oh, what are we thinking?
And that's how I feel.
Captain Marvel will be remembered because I never get a haircut.
And I don't wear clothes.
Oh, perfect.
I was going to say, you gave it a five out of 10, was it?
Five out of 10.
It's it's not the worst thing ever.
I think if I said, oh, it's a two out of 10, I'd be, you know,
lying to just like the audience.
But it's it's a it's the worst MCU flick.
I can't the moment it finished, I was like, that's most of four.
And after excruciating script writing to break this film down all of its issues,
I'm like, I'm like, I think I think it's fair to be like a two or three at this point.
And again, this isn't someone I just came up with, like, because I'm angry
or anything else actually was just it was just like such a meh film.
But a consistency sake, man, the world building, the characters, the the actual plot,
if you follow what the villains and heroes are all trying to do
and the methods in which they do it, it's it's looking dreadful in terms of like,
I don't think there's always MCU film for an actual structure of a narrative.
There's nothing to do with the fact that like all this shit's going on.
I literally like I'm actually hoping it would be a well written film.
So I could at least just say that.
But no hope on that front.
Like, did you notice how the big twist in the film with the
does does anyone care about spoilers for this?
Wait for one bit.
All right, chat.
We're Darth Vader dies at the end of the third movie.
We're going to spoil Captain Marvel.
So if you really are invested in the story of
Brie, Gorgonzola or whatever, then tune out
and go watch my videos and we'll let you know when I am.
Legend dies.
Yeah, Sean Bean dies in everything.
So we find out that the baddies of the movie are actually the goodies
about two thirds the way through.
And I guess this question is just for Jeff.
But do you find it odd that they've been trying to kill Captain Marvel
up to that point in several scenes and then they tell her, yeah, we just
we needed you so we could find the engine and it's like, why were you
trying to murder her if you needed to just talk to her?
Well, if I could go on make two points.
First off, in terms of the actual film, I agree with you.
I felt that it was stupid.
It made no sense.
And it kind of the structure of the movie just kind of fell on itself.
But my bigger problem is I don't know if you guys are into the Marvel comics
like I've been historically the Skrulls who were there since the beginning.
They're in the second issue of Fantastic Four, were always these evil
shape shifting aliens that caused a lot of problems.
And I know from the the ones from the older comics.
They've been around since 1962 or 61, depending on whatever the second book was published.
All right. Oh, so you're talking about the Elder Scrolls.
But shut up.
We're back on duel and duel.
What are those? Homophones, right?
Homophones, yes.
Yeah. No, but the thing is, it also ruins like the MCU going forward
because that was one of the great storylines that they could tell
in the Marvel Comics Cinematic Universe, you know, secret invasion.
When Electra died in the comics, she turned out to be a Skrull.
Then there was this whole thing where who's a Skrull?
You'll find out it kind of mirrored the whole red scare in the 1950s here in America
with who's a communist and who's not.
And it was a really well written story.
And a lot of people now that Iron Man and Cap and Thor and all these actors
are going to leave, you're thinking, well, what can I, you know, sink my teeth
into and you think, well, that's going to be one of them.
This is going to be one of them.
And not only does Captain Marvel come out as a bad film that doesn't hold up,
it kind of ruins the future of the MCU and the possibilities
because they'll have to backtrack from that feel good piece of shit
to come back and try to, you know, bring some integrity and intensity to the Skrulls.
Yeah, the the damage that they seem is I remember from the film,
I was like, this seems like the kind of thing they could tell over a trilogy
of films, like the Skrull versus the Kree and all the effects and stuff.
And Fringy, a guy who's regularly on Efap, he before Captain Marvel came out,
he was telling me about how the Skrull and the Kree work.
And he was like, who do you think out of all the characters that are currently
established in the MCU are going to be a Skrull?
And I was like, I don't know.
We see just a bit of speculation, how things would work, what it would mean
if certain people were aware and how much sense it would make.
And he like, he comes home from Washington.
He was like, fucking, nobody was like, why did they waste it?
They could have done the I was like, yeah, well, that sounds about right.
Like they're trying to be safe,
like trying to seal it all off while also being like, oh, we could do more with it.
Maybe my my problem is like, you know, as a fan of this stuff,
I mean, even admittedly, some of these MCU flicks that aren't the greatest.
I still am OK with more kind of looking at kind item.
You know, overall, I've been really happy.
And I mean, part of it with the end game for me is like it's an end of an era.
Maybe I'm ready to move on.
But Captain Marvel only exacerbated that and made it
like guaranteed that I'm ready to move on because before I'm like,
they do some cool stuff, you know, stick around because there was an error
in the books where like a lot of the Avengers left the team
and you were left with a real odd like Quicksilver and Scarlet Witch team.
And people still read the comic.
And then eventually Cap and Iron Man came back.
But in the movies, we'll never get that.
And, you know, you're not starting strong, Marvel, from a business standpoint.
You got to build up like you did before.
I knew brand recognition is great.
But we're going on about the Last Jedi two years after it came out.
And it damaged Star Wars.
Anything can damage a big brand if it's terrible.
And where I'm I'm sorry, Marla, go ahead.
Oh, well, go ahead, if you want to add on.
So I'm going to move on to a slightly different Captain Marvel thing.
OK, well, yeah, what I was going to say is it comes down to like,
I'm a I'm a fairly decent MCU fan.
I've had my ups and downs.
But Infinity War pulled me back into the MCU like I didn't expect anything to.
So I've never been higher on the MCU.
So all of this Captain Marvel stuff has really taken away from my excitement
to take us to Endgame, you know what I mean?
Oh, yeah. So that's where I'm at with it.
And so that's why I'm so frustrated with it, because it's such a.
This was a strategically placed film.
This was placed where it's placed, released when it's released at the time
in between these two movies to make it as successful as possible.
And generate as much goodwill.
Be like, look, look, she's right there among Infinity War and Endgame.
The two biggest movies of the MCU. She's there. She's cool, too.
It's like, uh, yeah.
And so that's that's my problem with it is is my and I do think
Infinity War is it is an all time. I mean, I love Infinity War.
And again, I was really kind of I was going through a fatigue of sorts
with the MCU prior to Infinity War.
And it just got me so motivated.
And now I'm so frustrated with just Captain Marvel, not the MCU.
But well, there's some people who said like, oh, people are overblowing
however power she is. Do you guys like are you aware that the movie portrays her
as she has the ability to travel the speed of light?
Yeah, I've heard all the spoilers of it.
And that's not something like that.
That ability is a big fucking deal.
You could do as I was like, do you understand the fucking things
she could do if she could travel and survive at the speed of light like this?
I know people will be like, oh, superheroes, why take it so seriously?
It's like, I don't know, man.
Cap is the fact that Iron Man suits
would actually like take damage and degrade over this course of fights
like is at least to the side to the audience that he has limitations.
You don't it's not just like a perfect suit throughout the entire thing.
We actually get like a sense of like, oh, yeah, he's actually potentially
going to lose out, eventually run out of resources, which isn't accentuated
more so than with Thanos when he gets himself stabbed with his own suit.
The idea that she can.
Like, I shouldn't be asking these questions,
but I'm like, is she still carbon based?
Does she still require energy?
Like, I don't know.
Those are legitimate concerns,
because we've all seen Christopher Reeve Superman.
The first one directed by Richard Donnery had this mantra of verisimilitude.
I think it means like, you know, it's fantasy, but you treat it realistically.
And Marvel had done that like you brought up Iron Man suit.
Remember, he ran out of energy at the end of the first one
because he had the wrong core.
There are certain things that keep you.
And it's also it helps with trauma,
because if your hero is never in any kind of danger,
that's why we complain about Ray.
It's not because of her vagina.
It's because she's never in any danger.
And she comes out on top no matter what in her vagina.
So I can't comment on it.
I don't want to see there, but also she did play could never.
They ain't all winners, folks, but for the sake of checks.
I didn't know this until I was actually like looked over it with with Fringey.
But, you know, the the Jaffa Gazzone person is going to know this
so that the end of the film, when they get into that ship
and they leave in search for other scrolls and they just zoom off
because obviously it's got the light speed engine technology in it.
The quad jet? Yeah.
She travels alongside it.
There's no way she had enough time to get into it.
There's no like fucking
she just goes like when you like a split second later, they both fire off.
And there's two there's two little trails as well in the sky.
So she's traveling with them, which means
she's traveling at the speed of light.
Assuming that's what light speed engines do.
I don't know that the film never says that they call it that
for any other reason, right?
Like it must be.
Which I find odd, by the way.
Why would that be faster than what they currently travel with?
You know, those those jump points?
Wouldn't that be faster than the speed of light?
The belief so, because that here's one thing
I don't think a lot of people are taken into consideration with Captain Marvel,
much like the last two Star Wars movies in the main line, they take place
over such a short excuse me, such a short period of time that it
causes like odd inconsistencies because it's like they say
how many hours it takes Jude Law to get to Earth. Right.
And all these things just happen in like one day
and it almost feels too crammed in and you can't really buy into,
you know, any theories or world building.
It's all just over one short period of time.
That reminds me of the fucking fuel shit in TLJ,
because now I'm asking myself like 22 hours.
So the Skrulls already traveled that distance,
which means they can travel pretty fucking fast, pretty long distances.
So why do they need the light speed engine?
Can't they just use whatever they're using anyway?
Why is the Tesseract with what's her name Annette Benning?
I mean, there are so many questions.
And like today, I just saw a meme over on our Facebook page.
This movie actually retcons Nick Fury's eye completely, because if you watch,
I think it's Winter Soldier.
He shows a picture of himself old and bald with both eyeballs.
So no scratch either.
So there's just more problems that this movie creates
than it does bring goodwill or excitement for Endgame.
This is why my big problem with identity politics is because they you go back
to The Force Awakens, the initial idea was to put a diverse cast,
not to tell a good story, to put a diverse cast.
And when you start out.
Story telling is taking a backseat.
You know, you heard JJ Abrams talk about it.
Well, we want this world to look like our world.
No, the fuck we don't.
Nobody wants a goddamn 7-Eleven on the corner.
I was going to say, did you see the cantina in The New Hope?
It wasn't exactly exactly.
And so, you know, you heard them say these things.
So with Captain Marvel, it's clear that they're
focused on putting a female superhero, which again,
nobody has a problem with that in isolation.
But you are basing this on gender and not storytelling.
And once you do that, the storytelling is going to suffer.
And so their focus is to represent the woman and get the woman to get respect
because she's been so held down and this is breaking barriers,
even though Wonder Woman only came out like two years ago.
You know, they have a vision is history.
Far better film.
Almost in parallel with Captain Marvel, too.
And a lot of people really like Alita.
Yeah, Alita is fantastic.
I don't know if you guys have seen it.
Great. It's now a Disney film, Jeremy.
So keep that in mind.
That's true.
Hey, Wolf, what do you think of Alita Battle Angel?
Oh, we want to go into it now.
You couldn't. You couldn't if you guys wanted.
It's up to you guys.
Fight, fight, fight.
Well, I made quite a few people.
You made a video on this?
You made a video on this?
No, I'm waiting on the manga to come in because I want to make a video
specifically about Alita's world building because I thought it was fucking awful.
So yeah, I thought it had some of the worst world building
I've seen in a sci-fi film in recent years.
It's Wolf has pissed off people in our chat several times with this.
Yes. And here's here's the great thing is like people got mad at me for it.
So I was like, fine, I'll go watch it again and see if I didn't pay attention
because people were saying that I literally didn't pay attention to the movie.
So I went back and only one of the like 50 questions I had was actually answered.
And it was only revealed in a single like four word sentence.
And I hadn't seen the movie in a month.
So I think I get a little bit of credit for that one at least.
But anyway, I asked people the questions that I had after watching the second one.
And the only responses I've had are admissions that the movie doesn't explain it
or really bullshit answers that aren't ever given in the film
or my personal favorite.
It doesn't matter or that it would take three hours to explain it anyway,
which I think is a really shitty excuse.
So you are you are going to are you are going to make a video on this?
Yes, but I'm waiting.
I want to read the manga first and the manga is taken fucking forever to get here.
I ordered it like a month ago and it's not coming to like April 9.
You order it from Japan.
Japan's far away.
I ordered it from Amazon because there was like the Amazon is far, far away, too.
Yeah, dude. I live right up the street from an Amazon home.
I get everything the same day.
Well, yeah, I know. I think it's because
because the the pack I ordered is the entire series in a single package.
And it came out like coinciding with the movie.
So I think what happened is a lot of people bought it immediately
and they didn't make enough copies.
So to clarify, will building is the biggest problem you had, right?
You were OK with.
Yeah, I mean, the second.
Yeah, I mean, visuals.
I mean, I don't really care because it's superficial.
The music, character development.
I liked Dr.
Ito, and that was really it.
Dr. Ito.
Well, I mean, I've seen Alita once and I had no desire to see it
until everybody and their brother kept telling me to go see it.
Well, here's the thing.
I went into it thinking it was going to be good
because I really like the YouTube or E.R.
I don't know if, you know, you see me calling our.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
He said it was good.
And I was like, well, I generally agree with a lot of the things he says.
So I was actually walking into it kind of excited.
But a lot of the moments that were supposed to be dramatic,
I found myself laughing at.
And that's because you're the characters I really didn't like.
Although the same time, I actually found myself liking Dr.
Ito a lot, which wasn't expecting.
I would like to see it again.
And I would have a discussion with you after you make your video,
after I get to watch it.
And if I see it again, I'll have a discussion
because world building was not a problem for me.
And world building is a problem for me in a lot of movies.
But I would like to watch it with that perspective in mind
to to like the one time.
So I came out of it kind of like mad at it
because I was like, people really think this is a good movie.
But as I thought about it more, I was like, there's a glimmer.
It's more of a disappointment because there's a lot there
that they could have made a really good movie out of.
But I feel like it could have benefited from like 45 extra minutes.
Leveau, I had a similar reaction to Captain Marvel when I was like,
people thought this was mediocre.
It's not that good.
Like, Jeff, have you seen anybody say Captain Marvel is great?
On Facebook, I have.
Outside of it, nothing in the Captain Marvel box.
Like, I've not seen anyone defend that position.
I've seen people say like, it's OK, it's OK.
At Council, you know, we all are connected to, you know, geek culture,
in a sense, in the online community.
We all kind of like, you know, Wolf is like, OK, I
I heard everybody saying that Alita was great.
So I went and saw it.
And I don't understand why people are saying this.
We all get the vibe.
We all get the temperature of the room.
No fucking body is praising.
There's no excitement.
Generally speaking about Captain Marvel.
You know, it's already a dud.
Eight hundred and twelve million dollars.
The concern I have talking about this movie, the concern I have with my video,
I'm like, I better get this done quicker because like people are going to forget
it exists soon.
Yes, you're right about that. You're right about that.
I think you have a week.
That's your window.
And then I think Captain Marvel is dead.
Oh, well, I'm not sure I can get exactly what I'm trying to.
I don't know, man.
I put out a fallout video months after people said it was a dead topic.
And I think people will always be reminded.
I think if you do, if you do critique on it and it's long enough,
people will see that and go, oh, yeah, I've heard it was bad.
But clearly it's not.
There's a lot of stuff I don't know.
And I want to find out why.
Yeah.
There's some weird stuff going on with Captain Marvel video.
Oh, yeah. That right now.
Some shenanigans.
And on my personal channel, even I got I made a video about the
New Zealand shooting that the night happened because of the whole PewDiePie
thing, you know, where they were trying to there was people on Twitter.
You know, it's like, oh, it's PewDiePie's fault.
He's spreading alt right toxicity.
And so I made a video.
I didn't talk about the shooting specifically as much as I was talking
about the reaction and how people are trying to blame PewDiePie
on my personal channel, which only when I think I had like nine thousand subs
when I uploaded it, I don't post a lot there.
The video had like over 50,000 views in a few hours.
And all of a sudden I get an email notification
YouTube said I violated community standards with my metadata.
I'm like.
I have no idea what it's the same metadata I have on everything.
I had the correct tags and.
My website, they took it down and said you can re-upload it
when you correct the problem.
What's the fucking problem?
I don't know what you're not telling what the problem is.
Anna, that Star Wars girl just had a Captain Marvel video
set to private that she couldn't unlock because of metadata.
They said she violated metadata.
I don't know what this means.
I know. And so it's really kind of weird.
Some of the decisions that they're making right now with Captain Marvel.
My views have taint in the last three or four days.
We had like six million views in the last 30 days on Geeks and Gamers.
And now that's about averaging about 200000 views a day.
I'm lucky if I can get 50000 views right now in a day
because it's just weird, man.
For my channel, essentially, my subscriber count was going.
I'd probably get a thousand subscribers every other day.
Maybe maybe you have a thousand a day.
But all of a sudden we hit 107 and change and then we stopped
and then we went down and we went up and now we're slightly moving up again.
But I also apply to get my channel verified like you did, Jeremy.
And that's when I kind of ran into an issue.
So I don't know what's going on with YouTube.
But but it's not just me. It's you.
It's nerd Roddick who doesn't even make any money.
It's a YouTube issue.
I don't think we're being targeted.
I think the topic is.
And I think that's why people talk about it.
Maybe Disney thinks, well, as long as they're talking about it, people go see it.
But, you know, this topic, I hate to use the phrase toxic,
but it's like just nasty, the stuff that goes on with this movie.
And that's why we critique it the way we do.
And it's we're lucky that it's a shit movie on top of it.
It's not like it's this great piece of art that we're trying to tear down
because of something.
Not only is it a bad film, but the culture surrounding it is just terrible.
It's crazy.
So Wolf, I mean, either hurry and get that video out or,
you know, don't worry about it.
I mean, fuck, dude, I've what is it?
daily five hours into a two out of six pop breakdown of a movie
that came out 2015 that everybody is like, everyone knows
which way it's as bad. I'm like, well, no, don't ever give up on those
because I listen to those when I draw the comic.
I love the long form stuff.
So yeah, I was having a wank.
Did you guys hear about what happened to Midnight's Edge
on their Captain Marvel deal?
No, what's that? No, they were live streaming.
I think it was a non spoiler review of
Captain Marvel in the middle of the live stream.
It got taken down and they got a strike on their channel for what?
And they they appealed it and got the strike.
The Estonian government, that's who struck them down.
The Estonian government.
That's a made up country. I have screen.
What?
What are we doing exactly on the minute?
Just like North Dakota is a made up state.
Well, no, that's North Dakota.
That's what some people call Canada.
I will say it's an if we all.
It's a.
So we're going to run
if a channel like Midnight's Edge runs into trouble, who isn't.
They don't stir up any shit.
They're just a matter of fact channel like boom.
This is what we know. This is what we don't know.
They don't make up anything.
They don't cause any problems if they're running into issues.
I think the problem is something else, not their content.
So it was it was kind of scary.
I really I mean, it's
it's just so vague, I will say.
And just just to be fair, I mean, I've had my issues
that YouTube has directly helped me out with at the same time,
but it still doesn't change the frustration level.
So that's oh, yeah, you don't know if they're going to help you one day
or just shit down your throat the next I know.
And they went out of their way to help me when I had my problem
because my entire month's ad revenue got stolen from me.
I got caught up in a stupid fishing scam, and they took everything.
Every penny. They will.
And on the phone, YouTube.
Full circle.
But YouTube.
Yeah, because I was I was on the set of Star Wars
theories, Vader fan film when I got the email.
And I just I had so much going on.
I just I wasn't thinking really.
And I responded to I clicked the link that I shouldn't have.
And anyway, long story short, YouTube went out of their way to help me.
And they got everything back and got it put back in my account.
And so but goddamn, though, they can it's one day.
They're like it's just hard to figure out what type of service you're going to get.
It's like when you call into like support for a big company is like you're purely
at the whims of just whoever it happens to be at the other end of the line
and whether or not they give a shit about you.
Yeah. And maybe you'll get a nice person.
Maybe you'll get an Indian. Who knows?
Yep. Wow. Rags.
Maybe it'll be a nice person or an Indian.
Yeah.
Like that you had to.
No, no, no, no.
Just to clear it. No, I mean, dots, not feathers.
And what?
Fuck.
Hey, Jeff, do you remember when you had the street with Bea Razorfist and
the guy around the toy channel, I didn't get to know him very well.
But I think it was a joke from Razorfist
that got like all of us in trouble on Twitter because they were like
it was some joke about I think it was like Kelly Marie Tran.
Something to do with it.
And it was just like we got major outrage.
People be like, how could you laugh at such a racist joke?
I was like.
Like, we go through that regularly on the next question.
You know, that that kind of pissed me off.
I felt bad for retroblasting because he was the most professional about all of it.
And that kind of killed our professional working relationship
because he had been on the channel one other time.
And it was one of my favorite things I've ever done.
But he got so much flack from his community that I just was like, you know what, man,
I don't want to cause you any problems.
We just won't work together anymore.
And, you know, I've I've since talked to Razorfist and stuff, I believe.
And he's cool. But it was such an innocent joke, too.
Yeah, no, that's the thing.
Like anything goes on pretty much because once you draw some kind of like
you're not allowed to joke about X, the community will start to evolve
to the point where everything starts to become impossible to joke about.
And then you will go hang out on another stream where it's allowed
and you laugh along and so you're just going to get yourself in so much trouble.
We don't want to build up a community that will turn on us
the second we say something that they deem inappropriate.
Yeah, we don't want to.
We don't want a Destiny's community.
We don't want one of these feminist communities.
We don't want to have to constantly straddle the right line
of what's acceptable to say.
And yet we will keep pushing that line.
Yeah, boy comes up.
We are going to say we've we've actually passed an hour.
So we should probably get to get to this video to make sure we're actually
we're doing something today is everybody's in this this watch together, right?
I guess I should give a small intro for the for the people of the chat.
This is a video called Star Wars, the Phantom Menace.
And I was sent here a while ago and I figured, like,
I've been waiting for the right sort of guests to cover it with because
pretty much you guys, you guys own that sort of moniker, right?
The Phantom Menace.
Yeah, so proud of it.
I was they took me down yesterday.
So I don't know if you guys saw, I got exposed.
So I'm no longer involved.
You know, you just got your Phantom Menace card taken away.
I don't know if this is a coincidence or not.
Like, I don't know if this person named this video after that sort of collective
or if it was just, you know, he's just calling it back.
It's a clever name sort of thing, like instead of panda, but it's definitely
a criticism of like the sort of toxicity that surrounds Star Wars as a whole.
So I don't know for sure that this is going to be a terrible video.
We'll be interested to talk about and we'll be able to jump into any sort of topics,
because I think it's safe to assume that all five of us are not exactly pleased
with the last Jedi or Star Wars right now.
Not not pleased.
Yeah, could have been better.
Could have been better.
I don't know what you're talking about.
I love that movie.
So enter the season.
I was pretty good.
Maybe this guy will change our mind.
Anyway, here goes this will be fun.
Oh, and of course, those who are new to watch together,
you can change the volume for yourself in the bottom right.
Yes, it won't affect anyone else's the bottom left.
The you see mauler.
What's this really cool?
So that's the left there at the bottom, right?
You could pause it if you hold up your hands, right?
I can't because I got pause, but if you can hold up your you can hold up your hands
and you can put your pointy finger and then your thumbs out.
And the one that makes an L is your left hand.
Pause is you know, that one's left.
That's true. Pause is a homophone.
I'm glad we've made progress today.
On words, you can twist your right hand to make an L2.
Yeah, but why would you do that?
I'll be ableist.
Don't want to expect from this, honestly.
Or worse, I hate it already.
That's you guys, by the way.
Hooray.
I get it.
Really? Where can we go from here?
There's no hope.
Has anybody who asks this question?
Shut up.
That they could be the root of the problem.
I'm assuming we could all come to the same conclusion.
No, this video is a call to arms for all the decent and mentally sound Star Wars.
All right.
For those cold arms, my brothers, we need to fight.
It's not a biastic joke, but what do you mean?
He says Chris Stuckman is one of the same ones.
All right.
Well, the man who has no opinion on anything is one of the same ones.
Good to know. Thanks.
Tear this video down right now.
If you agree with this guy, you're a sane person.
If you don't, you're an asshole.
Yeah, I mean, I think it's simple.
And for those who didn't, but still have a sense of humanity,
for those that sense of humanity, sense of humanity as you show a black man.
How are you saying that black men are not humans?
I like I'm glad Fringy's a frog or else I would have serious problems.
I hate everything is like, you know, budgeted with the rational ones.
Yeah, the rational. I hate everything.
You know, it's funny, me and Jay watched
I Hate Everything's video on why he hates superhero movies, right?
And at one point he goes on this like small tangent ranting
about how he's like, I should be allowed to criticize these movies
without you like assuming that I'm taking your feelings away.
And he's like, you're not going to change my mind
on whether or not these superhero movies are terrible,
because what I did was come to a conclusion that wasn't mindless.
I was just like, oh, my God, this is from like three years ago.
I was like, if this I hate everything met, I hate everything from his T.L.J.
video, those two would not get along with each other.
Once you start a conversation off with you cannot possibly change my mind.
My mind is made up.
I am set and there is no way for you to change your mind.
Why have a discussion with you ever?
I mean, look at his look at his anthem reveal where he just said,
in my opinion, every other sentence, he's just so I don't know.
I hate everything such a weenie.
Alex, you lost your balls.
Get him. I was going to say it felt like I was listening to like
a non-defanged Alex from three years ago.
Like the guy was like, I'm going to fucking rip into this thing
because it's this instead of like if you remember in his T.L.J.
video, he actually says he feels like he's
he's contributed to the problem of film criticism.
Like if you look at his destiny video, like his very first destiny video
and compare it to anything he's made in the past year.
It's like a different person.
Yeah, it's like a different person.
Sorry, I hate everything.
I'm sorry. Your content sucks now.
And if you're back to what made you good in the first place content
was better, it would.
Well, I don't know about you guys,
Jerry and Jeff, but we sort of have this thing on the phone.
We were like T.L.J. was like a big litmus test.
Like a lot of reviewers were were basically like they were
if they put out a video arguing that T.L.J.
was extremely well written.
Any movie before that, they could do it and they'd mostly be fine,
even if the movie was terrible.
But with T.L.J., it was like they were getting called out.
They'll be like, well, what about this?
And then they'd be like, huh?
But you know, it's supposed to.
We called them shills in a lot of our videos, Jeremy.
But that's kind of like a litmus test for us, too.
If you're bought and paid for, I could tell, you know, you're afraid
of criticism if you blindly love this movie in many regards.
Oh, hey, hey, I can tell you point volume for the video.
They can hear it.
Well, you saw a few of those comments.
I can tell you point blank.
I had a good relationship with Lucasfilm.
I got I went on a personal tour of Lucasfilm, everything.
And then I shit all over the Last Jedi, unfriended, unfollowed
and just basically treated like Candy Man by Lucasfilm.
So you you have their good graces.
But you have to stay in the good graces.
And so you've got people out there that will show for them.
And we'll just do anything they can to stay within the good graces.
They can get those press passes and get the Star Wars celebration passes.
All that success to a lot of people.
Oh, yeah. Thanks.
Multi, multi mystic for reminding me.
I'm supposed to ask you guys, what are your bets for the
so for episode nine, which I'm assuming both of you are going to go see.
Are you? Yeah, you're going to the channel like I did, Captain Marvel.
Yeah, sort of just watch the funeral for Star Wars.
Masking your misogyny. The eulogy.
So on on, we've got a running sort of that that got started, I think.
I think it was the shinobi episodes that this guy started funnily enough
because the cynic snacks, one of the first people who actually gave a vote.
So which do you think will be either like the most poorly written
or most inconsistently written character of episode nine?
Now, before you say anything, you're not allowed to vote
for Lando or Kylo because we all know
that those two are going to be top tier choices because Kylo makes no sense
constantly like one of the most strongest choices and Lando.
It's it's probably safe to assume Lando will be ruined like
it'll be white in the next movie. Yeah.
You know, why not?
Actually, they wouldn't do that.
They make him female or whatever.
Like it wouldn't be they wouldn't make him white rags.
Come on. Yeah, that's too evil.
That's evil right there. That's evil.
So out of the I mean, you can vote for whoever you want,
but the top voted things right now are Finn and Poe for like characters
that will just be most inconsistent.
But obviously you can go for literally anybody as far.
I think the logic with people not voting for Luke
is that he's basically been destroyed.
So it's like I don't even know you can whatever justification you want.
Which character do you think is going to be the most like fucked up or inconsistent?
I think if you look at it, I mean, out of the choice, Finn.
What they did with Finn in The Force Awakens
and how they were setting him up
and then what they did with him in The Last Jedi.
It's just so weird.
And I feel like JJ is going to take it back to what they were doing
in The Force Awakens, but that almost applies to everything
that I feel JJ is going to do.
I think that the whole trilogy is going to be inconsistent
in in such on such a massive level.
But in terms of specific characters, I feel like Finn is going to be
heavily focused on a lot in episode nine.
And I feel like that's going to make his whole arc the most inconsistent.
I'm going to go with Poe, but I do want to say Finn had the potential
to be the most interesting of the entire trilogy.
Yeah, you know, not made of a joke.
But I'll go with Poe Dameron because
the new Star Wars trilogy needs the you know, the the the mirrored image
of Luhan, Luke and Leia.
So they tried that with Rey, Finn and Poe.
All of them suck.
And make Poe something that the boys can, you know, glom onto
because he was so lame in the second one.
You know, he was OK in the first one, kind of there just existed.
But he got basically cut out by was it Admiral Holdo?
And then didn't really do anything at the end.
He did some cool slide. And that's it.
I say in this one, they try to make him an interest or actual character.
That's my guess. He'll be the most inconsistent because they'll try.
I'm not saying he's going to be great, but they'll try harder to make him
more masculine in the traditional sense.
You're going to have a poll.
And Jeremy, you're going for Finn, right?
Oh, Jeremy, Jeremy is Finn and Jeff is Poe. Excellent.
I was going to say I'm voting for Finn and Jeff.
You're with Alex Vox's CJ and Southpaw.
So the two top voted ones right now is Finn and Poe.
Seems everybody's pretty sure they're going to be the ones that have fucked up.
And I just I look at it and I'm like, is it because of the fact
that everyone else is already ruined and Rey will be perfect?
There's no chance Rey will be inconsistent.
Well, I voted for Hux.
True. And the logic, right, is that
you went from X in Force Awakens to Y in TLJ.
So now they have to choose between X or Y.
And no matter what they do,
the more you talk about this, the more it's such a disaster, man.
God damn. But yes, it's good that I did that.
And now we will we'll kick on with the video to make sure it's just.
Oh, yippee.
To me, we could all come to the same conclusion.
No, this video is a call to arms
for all the decent and mentally sound Star Wars fans.
For those who like some such conviction.
And it was still he does say for those who didn't like it.
But a sense of humanity for those that have a sense of humanity.
And you have to wonder, like, are we included in that?
We're probably not aware.
We probably we probably did make the count.
They have differing views, but can all come to an agreement on the fact
that the actions of a specific set of our community,
a hard part of our fan base, have no justifiable right to act out of.
What? Yeah, I have.
I have to pay this.
It's your sense, bro.
He sounds very, very.
God, he sounds like TRO when he fucked up that sentence in that video
and got like every other word wrong.
I am. Do you guys love it?
And I'm not saying that's exactly what he just said here,
but do you guys love it when people say that your emotional reaction
to a piece of content is wrong, as in like you're overreacting
or you're you're you're too angry or you're too blah, blah, blah.
You're overreacting in the way that I don't know the direction that I don't like.
Yeah, overreacting the way that I like.
Like, say you love it. That's OK.
So you adore it. You worship it.
That's all good. But if you hate it. Oof.
Ooh, that's not that you realize this is for kids and you hate it.
I love that argument so much.
Yeah, it's a it's a kids movie, but we're going to obsess over
sexual relationships and do our fanfiction with Poe and Finn making out.
But it's for kids, for kids.
Well, remember, you're allowed to love it, right?
But you're not allowed to hate it because it's for kids.
Right. Right.
So you're allowed to have the emotional reaction we deem is appropriate.
Like, I was anyone ever said you shouldn't love Star Wars.
It's for kids.
How weird would that you just be like, what?
I hear you shouldn't criticize it because it's for kids.
It doesn't hold up to any standards.
What? Yeah.
We only give our kids crap.
Just some of my favorite movies are designed specifically for children.
So I'd be like, Toy Story, I mean, it was grand adventure.
Wally is it's not something that is poorly written like Treasure Planet.
I am giant.
Like that. Credibles Atlantis.
And it's like, I love Atlantis once you've named enough.
These the people who are making the movie like, oh, yeah,
there are some really well-written kids stuff.
You'd be like, yes, yes, there is.
Get this Jared Leto looking motherfucker off the screen agreement.
Looks like a list of actions of the actions of a specific set of our community.
So why this a hard part of our fan base?
Or no justifiable right to act out as they have.
One of the messages that has always been an underlying tone of the Star Wars series,
for me, at least, is that no matter how different you look or sound,
we are all a member of this one universe.
What do you like last year, Star Wars?
I've never I've watched Star Wars for 26 years.
I've never once had that thought.
Yeah, that's no.
That's the thing. That's why themes are so just low bar.
You can make things out of anything.
You can connect anything.
You should be like, oh, Star Wars is always about no matter where you're from.
We're all a part of the same thing.
It'd be like, what movie did you just watch?
I don't think that they they glorify that the dark side members are like.
That was just slightly different, but they're all welcome into our family.
Like, not necessarily.
I think you have to switch before you can come over to the cool.
I don't know the family themes I totally get.
But being like, it's like an all inclusive, happy,
everybody's great sort of like, I don't think
of the huts portrayed in a way that anything other than evil.
I'd accept that.
We don't accept the slug people.
They're not beach body ready.
I'd love that if this guy responded, he's like, well,
we don't accept those guys, obviously, no one else, though,
that no matter how different you look or sound,
we are all a member of this one universe.
Whether you like Last Jedi or you weren't a fan of it, doesn't matter.
We're all part of this fan, bike it or we're not to us to root out the hatred,
though, the infection of a root out the hatred.
That's amazing if you liked it or you were a fan.
It's like a fucking religion.
Jesus, we have to root out the hatred.
I'm sure that was an accident in his script,
but the implication of that sentence, like.
It's just funny.
They hate Jesus.
We have to root them out of society.
Yeah, it's like if you like the I'm trying to.
Yeah, you get the point.
It's Jedi.
Look, if you like the Jews or you're not a big fan of them,
maybe we should just root them out of society.
A fan of it doesn't matter.
We're all part of this fan base.
It's up to us to hate it.
The infection of a once great fandom has to be cured.
Infectious.
It's literally like a fucking crusade call, man.
The Muslims in our goddamn holy land.
That is I can't even express how stupid of a quote that is.
We have to retake Jerusalem.
And it's a it's a call for peace.
Right. The quell in the infection and reach people.
I always say that like as a sports fan,
these people would never survive being in sports.
Who would hate you with their plastic lights?
Oh, my God.
It's just unbelievable that they think that this is toxic or dangerous.
It's like, go to go to a fucking football game.
People just don't like your shit movie.
So, yeah, my God, man.
The fact that it comes down to that is so awkward.
The whole chat is saying they are small.
All crusades.
If you're with me on this journey of reclaiming a peaceful fandom full
of different but equally as beautiful opinions, equally as beautiful opinions.
As long as they line up with yours, right, pal?
Oh, as long as they are equally beautiful opinions,
as long as they're positive and I approve of them.
And for the prequels,
that was that was very divisive.
No, it was OK to hate them.
That's how people usually justify this shit.
They'll be like, yeah, but they were bad.
Right. Yeah. Yeah.
And it's like, oh.
Why did all the idiots like this fucking movie?
Like Disney drones.
Like, can you actually name one intelligent person on the planet
that's actually unironically a Last Jedi fan?
Well, it's strange because my dad likes it.
My dad loves the Last Jedi.
Is your dad smart?
Oh, he's really smart.
That's the thing.
It's just he he just sees movies a different way.
I guess it's weird.
Honestly, like I could see casual view is totally like, like,
I feel like my parents saw the Last Jedi, which they haven't seen it.
My dad would be like, oh, that's that's that's the Skywalker.
I know. Yeah. Yeah.
That's Logan, Sky Runner.
And then if I was like, why is he on that island, dad?
He'd be like, I don't know.
Oh, he's on a pee break.
You know how people get when they're old.
Yeah. Why is he giving up on everything?
Oh, I don't know.
Someone in the chat said my sister's boyfriend loves TLJ.
There's a lot of people out there that their wives boyfriend really likes TLJ.
I can tell you that much.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Wonderful.
And enjoy what this video has to offer.
If not, if you're part of the toxic brood that is recently.
The toxic brood from the WWE.
Guys, enjoy the video or you're toxic.
Jeff, who all is in the brood?
Oh, God, it's Christian and gang grill.
So we're the brood. I like it.
Well, if it was good knowing you guys, we're going to be sent to jail
for being part of the toxic brood suit.
The toxic brood, I have literally
like a fucking star craft.
You couldn't make that shit up like that.
So I'm a toxic breed.
That sounds like the dumbest thing I might have ever heard somebody call me.
I mean, I mean, but instantly it sets the tone of the video.
It's instantly right off the bat.
Either you basically you like this film or you're part of the toxic brood
and you have to be excised from the community like the tumorous answer you are.
Toxic milk.
No, I just love.
I'm already he's already given me two great quotes for next April Fools.
I'm like, chill out.
We got a whole year of this before I make it to the script.
We face then I hope you stay and maybe learn that you can have
a different opinion without being some sort of hate monger.
Oh, fucking hell.
This is a good idea.
There's an irony.
Jesus.
The hate mongers of the toxic brood.
I wonder if I'm a T-shirt.
The hate mongers are toxic.
Oh, yeah.
They're a really sweet death metal band.
Yeah, so toxic brood.
Yeah, they're great.
I saw them live and I'm embracing.
I'm embracing the brood.
The race, the brood.
Yeah, I'm going to race the brood.
Let's own it.
We're the five founders of the toxic brood.
This video defending Star Wars, the last Jedi.
I use the term fans referring to the ones who put on those who have different opinions.
Also, we're not true fans, right?
I'm glad that you are the arbiter of what a true fan is.
Thank you, Mr. Scotsman.
The ones who claim to be true Star Wars fans and say to others,
you're not a true Star Wars fan if you didn't hate the last Jedi.
OK, OK.
Have you guys ever said that to anyone?
You're not a true fan.
And this is a discussion we always have.
I say this all the time.
OK, it's OK to like a bad movie.
Just acknowledge it.
That's it.
Unless it's the last Jedi.
I still get eggs thrown at me in public for liking Mortal Kombat Annihilation.
I'm one of the seven people on the planet that likes this movie.
It's not a good movie.
It's a horrible film.
So I think they equate that to letting us have our opinion or whatever.
Oh, I'm guilty of that.
They're both.
And they're they're just it's total nostalgia for me.
Like I said, with Mortal Kombat 3 and Annihilation,
but the point is nobody in the fandom and menace, nobody, period,
that has, you know, become prominent in the, you know, resistance
or whatever you want to call it, of the last Jedi in Disney,
Star Wars has said that you can't like the movie.
Nobody has said that.
Nobody has.
I have people on my team that like this movie from Geeks and Gamers dot com.
There are people that like it.
It doesn't make sense as a statement.
You can't I can't.
I haven't you excise them.
Like, what can I even do?
Cast a spell that prevents you from feeling that like, no, no.
God, I'd like it.
It's people that need their opinion.
You know, just they need to be validated by other people.
Yes. And when they can't have their opinion validated,
you're immediately a racist, a sexist, misogynist, toxic.
And you. Even though none of that is ever true, like, you know,
you can't assume people's politics because they have an opinion on a movie,
but that's what these people do.
So by the way, it is good to be on here with my fellow racist, sexist man babies.
So I'm hard. Yeah.
White power. Yeah.
Both white power, white power, white power, white power, the South.
You read the newspaper like, yeah, white power, white power.
Yes, the South shall rise again.
The North shall rise.
The South. Sorry.
Make Germany great again.
Yes. Yeah. The whole.
Right. Let's do it.
The whole true fan thing as well.
It's like a true Scotsman.
Does anyone really do that?
I don't know.
I've always assumed it was just ironically saying it like, you know, true.
I've always said this.
I acknowledge that the prequels, especially the first two,
have some some major problems.
I enjoy the prequels.
I enjoy the stories of the prequels.
I fought with prequel haters a lot like I fought with these people
for years because I would defend the prequels from the story standpoint.
When I argued with prequel haters.
I believe we're Star Wars fans.
When I argue with people that defend the Last Jedi,
they don't seem to be Star Wars fans.
They seem to be people that are invested in this because of the identity politics.
That's what it comes off to me.
I have I have argued with these people so much on both sides,
the prequel haters and the Last Jedi and the sequel trilogy defenders.
And when I bring up points, it's just like they don't really seem to understand
anything about Star Wars and why the Last Jedi is such a problem
and how it impacted Return of the Jedi, how it didn't capitalize
off of anything that the Force Awakens built up, how it's set
episode nine up to be a complete failure.
They don't seem to understand it at all.
They only seem to want to call us the same names.
We all get called.
And when you start when your defense to a movie
is that someone is a racist and like seriously,
where are these racist and the sexist that these people keep claiming?
Like, well, it's not even an argument against it.
Well, all five of them are in this call.
And we literally started the toxic brood, dude.
Exactly.
I'm sure I'm part of the toxic group giving women.
I hate minorities, whatever.
But tell me what's wrong with the film.
You might not know what I am.
You might be giving them more credit for the like their sort of requirements.
Like I've already heard it is like they they get to the point where
I was watching a Captain Marvel review that was relatively positive,
but still didn't like it.
And one of their opening things was like, if you if you find these reviews
with guys saying like, I'm not sexist, I just don't ignore that.
They're going to be sexist.
I was like, oh, wow, like that's that's the criteria.
You just need to say you're not sexist.
You're sexist. You're done.
Another movie that I like that a lot of people don't.
And I'm fully self-aware enough to understand.
And it's X-Men Origins Wolverine.
I enjoy the movie. I don't like Deadpool.
I've never liked Deadpool as a character.
He annoys the fuck out of me and fans annoy the fuck out of me.
So Deadpool is horrible in that film in terms of being portrayed as Deadpool.
And so I understand why Deadpool fans hate the portrayal of Deadpool in that movie.
It doesn't bother me because I don't give a shit about Deadpool.
But that's having self-awareness, which is what a lot of these people seem to lack.
So you can like The Last Jedi.
You can like the portrayal of Luke Skywalker.
Betrayal of Luke Skywalker.
Can we rename Efap to the toxic brood?
Dude, I will be here every week.
You do that.
Need tattoos, Jeremy.
I got a couple of I there's always a few closet X-Men Origin Wolverine fans
when I make that comment on the Internet.
And I appreciate you.
Oh, I'm not one of them.
There's going to be somebody in the chat who would openly say like,
yeah, I like The Last Jedi. I did.
But they like these channels.
I don't know, maybe try and talk about all of the things about it that maybe don't work.
There's going to be somebody in chat who liked it.
And now someone's going to say they liked it just for the meme.
But you know what I mean, like, yeah, statistically, it's going to happen.
But yeah, let's let's let's kick on.
I want to hear more about the toxic brood.
Be true Star Wars fans and say to others, you know, to choose Star Wars fan
if he didn't hate The Last Jedi.
It's a disgrace to this theory.
The fact is this franchise is on the brink of collapse
because the people who love it are tearing it down with every fiber of their being.
Oh, my God. What the Lord.
I just didn't support this movie.
It's a failure, not because of the quality of the film.
I'm curious. People didn't like the quality of the film.
What does he mean? The brink of collapse?
Was it? It was just fine up until me 2015.
And now it's in the toilet.
Well, yeah, you guys ruined it.
You guys killed it.
Now I'm, you know, I'm a hate monger. The toxic brood.
Yeah. I just I'm curious because, you know, as long as Disney
are making money out of them, which, by the way, episode nine is going to make money.
There's no way it won't.
Oh, no one's ever.
No one's ever denied that these movies won't make money.
But when was it 750 million dollars less between the Force Awakens
and The Last Jedi? There's a disconnect.
That's absolutely right.
That's a huge difference.
I'm pretty sure my prediction would be nine will make less than both
TLJ and TFA, but I can't know for sure.
Well, if you look at the if you look at the like, if you go to the TFA
and the second week drop coming off that record opening weekend,
it had a hell of a good second week.
It was like a 39 percent drop, which is outstanding.
You look at the second week drop on The Last Jedi because everybody went
to The Last Jedi because a lot of people enjoyed Force Awakens
to go see The Last Jedi.
Huge opening weekend.
Sixty, I think nine percent drop in week two.
And that right there.
Yeah, that right there showed you.
You're like, oh, shit, you know, people really like, of course,
that one point three million a billion is very distorted
because what did it make?
Six hundred million the first weekend, you know, between, you know, worldwide.
So but if you start looking at how far it dropped on week two,
comparatively speaking, to The Force Awakens, I mean, it dropped big time, big time.
Yeah, my assumption is like, you know, like Predator and Alien
and a couple of other franchises, they're like puppeted corpses
of a franchise at this point, you see these embarrassing films
that come out and you're like, oh, there it is again. Humiliated again.
Oh, well, people don't get as angry about that because they've been dead
for so long now. But like, yeah, I feel like Star Wars
will get there well before the movie stop getting made.
Like Disney will run this thing into a very deep grave
before they stop releasing movies.
Or one point I always like to make, too, is that Star Wars means a lot
to people that grew up with it because back then that was the biggest thing.
You had never seen anything like that.
And then even for somebody like me who grew up in the 90s,
there are still really nothing like it.
You had other big effects movies.
But nowadays, a lot of these other franchises are, you know,
the generation Star Wars.
So I think just younger people aren't going to go turn out as much.
But Disney's made an effort with the help of a lot of these
like shitty news outlets to push where the people are going to keep going.
It's the exact opposite of our friend in the video.
I just does he think you guys have the power to kill Star Wars permanently?
Like these people do.
I fucking went solo, went solo, went solo failed.
I got blamed for the boycott that I never called for.
Yeah, dude, me too.
Jeremy, we have this power.
We need to hold it hostage and make a billion dollars.
Disney passed a billion dollars and will go away.
You got the money.
You'll have no problem.
A billion dollars and the taxes.
I think they have the power to sway an influence and stuff.
Like I think we all do.
It's just that to kill start to actually break it.
Like I don't think anyone could do that
because there's the casual audiences who have no idea we exist.
You know, it's in gamers.
Who are they?
Yeah, it's like I spent every week on gamers.
Like, I don't know if I'm going to say it.
I know it's controversial, but I think this man might be hyperbolic.
I think he may be saying things that are a little bit ridiculous.
That's that's my thing.
You don't say they love to chat.
They were not a lot of the goalposts.
So so when when solo failed, they they like, oh, Jeremy,
there's just geeks and gamers calling for the boycott.
I'm like, I never called for a boycott.
Like Brian Young wrote articles about me
it called saying that I led the boycott.
So then I made a video where I showed video evidence of me saying point blank.
I'm not going to see so low, but I support you if you want to go see solo
and I support you if you don't want to go see it.
I support you doing whatever the fuck you want to do with your own money.
I can't tell you what to do with your money.
I'm just telling you what I'm doing.
And then he changed the article.
He edited the article without acknowledging it.
I young does.
I'm sure you guys know who Brian Young is.
Why acknowledge that?
You know, that's just it gets in the way.
So exactly exactly.
And so the message is secondary to believe me.
We know about that all too well.
Me rags the wolf.
Oof. Oh, yes.
And then and then.
So, of course, I've dealt with the being blamed for the solo boycott all that time.
And then when Captain Marvel was a success, then they're like, see, Jeremy,
you're not as powerful as you say.
Like I never fucking said I was powerful.
You stupid bastard said I was.
So, yeah, they constantly change the rules.
I've heard it said more often that we're like, you know, we're not relevant.
Go away. You're not going to do anything.
I hear that more than I've ever heard that these people actually think
we're going to destroy the entire front. OK, OK.
Well, yeah, they they simultaneously need people like us to be extremely influential.
And we're going to ruin your opinion and we're going to deny you all of your joy.
And we have so much power and influence.
But at the same time, we're a bunch of basement dwelling nerds
that you shouldn't care about.
And we don't have any power whatsoever.
Both of those things need to be true simultaneously for their narrative to work.
So anyway, let's kick off with this beautiful video.
People who love it are tearing it down with every fiber of their being.
People have lost what this movie was originally meant to be.
Hope, the only. Oh, God.
Describing the LJ as hope.
How do you know you can't hate a bad movie if the theme is a story
that ends with the idea of hope is kind of it's kind of ruined
if that was the same story that plummeted everybody to the point of desperation.
There's 20 people on a ship now, but have hope.
Yeah, it's like, oh, yeah, but they're all they're all going to win.
It's like you with the movie that put them all in this position of trying to reach hope.
It's like the fucking Bible is like, don't worry, Jesus is coming back.
Does anybody do it?
Yeah, there's going to be people out there who think the T.L.J.
is a good representation of hope.
I just it's just funny to me because everything I hope the next one isn't as bad.
Everything is destroyed and killed.
It's like hope, guys.
You're like, yeah, yeah, hope is an excuse for doing nothing.
Oh, geez.
People have lost what this movie was originally meant to be.
Hope, the only hope that exists in this fan base anymore
comes from hoping that another fan doesn't ridicule you or berate you verbally.
Oh, no. Wait, what's this video?
Do you have any self-awareness? Hold on. Hold on.
I just want to break this down here.
So the Last Jedi represents the hope that you won't be berated
by somebody else in the fan base from a video.
So you make a video doing that. Yes, exactly.
Have you not already?
This doesn't work. Oh, my God, kiddo.
Have you guys ever had any of this happen to you
than someone calling you a mean name for liking a movie?
Is there anything the first world problem?
Dude, I was circumcised.
Like I said, the lack of self-awareness right here.
It's really what it comes down to.
Lack of self-awareness. That sounds about right.
We we we encounter that quite a bit.
Another fan doesn't ridicule you or berate you verbally
because you like the movie and they didn't.
There is a very toxic side to this community.
A side that escapes.
They're not even saying because I wonder how many times we're going to hear toxic.
I think we should keep account of how many.
I don't know how many times we've heard it.
We've heard it at least three or four times.
I mean, yeah, we take at least three or four times.
I can get a toxic counter running.
I think we need a toxic counter.
Yeah, well, you're talking.
What are we guessing that he's done it so far?
Like three, five, three or four.
Yeah. So I think toxic is going to be a good count.
We'll go with four.
Right now that you have the right.
You deserve your own opinion.
You have the right to serve your opinion.
I forgot about that part of the Constitution.
I think it was like the Seventy Seventh Amendment.
By the way, you have the right to like the last Jedi.
Sayeth John Adams.
John Adams, thank you, founding fathers.
We are so far ahead.
The other founding fathers are like, why did you write that?
He's like, trust me, just trust me.
It'll be important one day.
This will not come to fruition in our lifetimes, George.
But I promise you that one day will be true.
It's like a crystal ball.
He's like, I've seen the future.
I've seen the future of this nation.
Can that be part of the lore that John Adams had a point here?
John Adams was a spider.
Oh, my God.
John Adams was a spider.
Uh, Geeks and Co.
Jeremy and Jeff won't know that reference.
Oh, yeah.
Whenever you hear something from us that makes no sense at all,
all it means is a reference to some stupid shit
that's happened before.
So don't panic. It's fine.
Like I told you, Anna, she listens to you all the time.
She told me she does.
Sometimes they have inside jokes.
So you're probably not going to get some.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Beowyn, if you're in the chat, hear me out.
John Adam, a spider with John Adams head.
Must have wigged. Please.
You have to have him writing on the yes.
A spider with the head of John Adams writing on the Constitution
that you are allowed to like the West.
What happened to the first Jedi?
I hope they're like, John, what's a Jedi?
He's like,
all will become clear after if you didn't enjoy this movie.
I can't stress enough that you have the right.
You deserve your own opinion.
So a record guy like, OK, thanks, man.
It's like a parody, right?
Like, you know, this can't be real.
That is your prerogative.
And I have no qualms with yourself or your views.
The problem is, you know, fuck, I haven't made a note of it yet.
You have the right to like the last Jedi.
That's something I will definitely say.
At some point, that's beautiful.
It is guaranteed in the Constitution.
You have the right.
You woke up somebody like you can't like it.
The police officer is like, excuse me, sir.
You can't say that views.
The problem lies in the extremist fanboys and fangirls who decide that
because their fantasy experience was ruined.
They have the right to terrorize.
Can we terrorize the hyperbole continues?
The hyperbole meter just takes it to another level.
Can we get an Oahu Akbar for this?
Got to play that again.
Make sure make sure the audience is the girls who decide that
because their fantasy experience was ruined.
They have the right to terrorize directors, actors and supporting families.
There's no evidence to support that Kelly Marie Tran
was attacked or whatever they claim to have.
There's no evidence to support this.
And every time you ask for evidence, they point to the article
where she blames Hollywood.
Yeah, the worst ones that they even read.
Well, this is the thing I actually when I first heard it, I took it 100 percent truth.
And I was like, it means nothing.
Everyone gets those crap on some people out there.
I mean, just the size and scope of a fandom this size, like, yeah, sure.
I'm just law of averages will eventually catch up to you.
But that's true with every audience.
Like, why even bother the other day?
The other day I was scrolling through a Twitter thread where they were
they were making fun of me, these people that hate me.
And they, you know, when I have my hat off, everybody says have a big forehead.
So they were drawing tic tac toe on my forehead.
I was like, this is fucking hilarious.
This is fantastic.
Oh, I didn't need to keep my big ass fucking brain.
Oh, yeah.
And so now they've made a parody account, tic tac toe forehead, Jeremy.
And I'm like, this is great.
If you're on the Internet, you get shit talked about you.
Is that it's just it's obvious.
And if only if you want to play the victim card, which a lot of these people
love to play the victim card, everybody gets fucked with on the Internet.
Period. Point blank discussion.
The Internet is not it doesn't.
It doesn't. It's not racist.
It's not sexist.
It doesn't discriminate against anything particular.
Everybody gets fucked with everybody.
You're not special because you have a vagina.
Hey, man, if you have a vagina and you're hated, that's like, come on.
That's something that's never happened to get to the U.N.
Right there.
Respect, respect.
Whammin. Respect.
A question to these radical and toxic fans radical is this.
Who the hell are you?
What makes you so you don't even know who we are?
You don't even know who we are.
That's another toxic counter.
Oh, shit. Yeah.
You got you guys going to remind me of that shit.
So I'm going to forget that you think that any of these people
have to heed to your diluted demands and proclamations.
What's a man? Deluded demands.
Deluded demands and proclamations.
I don't think you know what that means.
What are our demands?
We don't demand anything.
Deluded demands.
What do you mean by that?
They think that it's a diluted demand to like demanded.
Well-written movie, is that too much?
It's it's I guess it's too much nowadays.
I love proclamations as well.
Like what? Proclamations.
Proclamation. Yeah. Yeah.
Yeah. We're definitely there's a running narrative with the John Adams stuff.
I have so much less respect for John Adams now.
Yeah. You know, I thought he was a man of good taste, of good story.
I so did I.
But I guess John Adams is he really likes the last Jedi.
Yeah, you do.
He's not a true fan.
Nobody honestly cares about your extremely fragile sense of reality.
You reset the entire video on it.
A sense of reality.
Do you know what the word hypocritical means?
He said a lot of things like just try to follow the narrative here.
It's like he's in his room alone.
A lot of proclamations.
That'll get him. That'll stick him.
That's a good line.
Mom, I did a good line.
Someone in the chat said no taxation without opinionation.
All right, again, I'm going to roll him back a little bit.
See if we can follow this. Proclamations.
Nobody honestly cares about your extremely fragile sense of reality.
You reside in a severely narcissistic bubble.
I've noticed how pathetic these videos and tweets actually look.
Some of those are actually positive about the last Jedi, if I remember.
Oh, go back.
I think my video was in that last one.
We got severely narcissistic bubble.
Oh, so we got a lot of the top one was we got angry Joe Hunk Marvel again.
I've noticed Hunk Marvel videos, tweets actually.
Star Wars family wise.
Oh, yeah, you got in there. Nice.
You made it. You made it to the big league.
You did it.
Misanthropony got it there, Wolf, but I did.
Misanthropony can get fucked.
Look, she's me, me, me, me, me.
I, I, I, I, I.
Oh, the three targets down.
We know this is the thing.
Now we know who he's talking about.
It's it's people who didn't like the movie.
They're the ones that need to be old.
Remember, they're the infection.
It's all about you and your over dramatic reactions to a movie.
So take your extreme of anger and you spill it on some innocent
person's Instagram feed or Twitter account all because you can.
Nothing holds you back from unleashing your rage on some innocent person.
Why is this the narrative?
OK. OK, mom.
We are the toxic brood, after all.
Is everyone that didn't buy Rose Tico merchandise lumped into this?
I think so.
The millions have failed.
Anyone who didn't love the last Jedi is kind of lumped into it.
Harassment.
The character was bad, man.
I'm sorry.
What?
Rose Tico was incredible.
She was incredibly terrible.
Yeah, that's what I meant. But, you know, I got over the record.
Awesome. I just want to say just just so you know, I'm not toxic.
I don't hate women. Asian porn.
And all the porn and all the porn that I like has a female lead in it,
by the way, because I'm all about.
So I'm all about women representation and porn.
Just want to get that out of my favorite movie is all Asians.
There's no non Asians.
It's a porn movie or no, no.
My legit favorite movie ever masquerade is South Korean film.
It's only Asians, no English, no white people, no white men.
It's all Asians who don't speak English.
Well, my favorite movie is The Lord of the Rings.
And there's black people in it, their works.
What are the Uruk-Kai then?
They're black, too, they're like super black, super.
They pulled them straight out of the ground.
They almost won.
A wise man was sick.
They were so preoccupied.
So I want to draw some attention here to the location of an apostrophe.
They were so preoccupied with weather.
He spelled weather wrong.
He spelled weather wrong.
Diddings of apostrophe.
Look at, yeah, they look at the diddings.
They didn't?
Impostrophe.
Oh, my God, that's the inverse of what they did with.
Oh, my God.
Oh, yeah, because did apostrophe.
Like, I know there's an air comma in here somewhere.
It's very it's very toxic.
It's very toxic for us to point these things out, by the way.
This is very this is bullying as well.
Oh, yeah, disclaimer.
Leave this man alone.
Who made this video?
If anything, post a very kind comment on his video.
He clearly has enough problems in his life already.
Do not add to them.
Just pile on, please.
And like, I'm not even joking here.
Just say, like, I disagree with this video.
Don't go any further than that, because they'll just use it as fuel.
We learn from Shinobi.
OK, we learn.
I wish that was the that should be the meme.
Just I disagree with this video.
That should be a comment.
A thousand of those.
And then right now, don't do that because then Shinobi would still lose his mind over it.
He would be upset.
He'd be like, Rhino Milk.
Is this racism?
I don't understand.
Oh, no, it's not.
I'm lactose intolerant.
Oh, yeah.
So I want to also the fucking.
But he's so he's like, oh, people will harass people because they're just angry about a movie.
And he's using this quote.
It's like they're preoccupied with whether or not they can.
They don't think about whether or not they should.
It's like I don't think this is applicable.
Like what they were doing in Jurassic Park is like, this is revolutionary technology.
Push, push, push, push.
While you're comparing that to angry, I'm going to send a message.
Oh, my God.
You're going to find this really interesting weather.
He did.
I'm positive he didn't mean to actually say this,
but whether in the way that it's spelled, if you type it into Google,
the first result is a castrated ram.
We were so preoccupied with castrated rams.
You had her when you take the balls off.
I'm changing the quote to that.
He accidentally did.
Oh, never would have said that ifap was not educational.
Absolutely.
We learned so much.
We're infotainment at its finest.
How do you put the apostrophe after the T, man?
As people who know how long it takes to edit videos and all the going back
and looking at what you do is like typos.
Really?
Get this shit.
You like that?
A Jurassic Park quote.
Oh, yeah, that wasn't.
I hate the new Jurassic World movie.
Oh, Jesus.
You hate the new.
Well, listen here, bust.
You said you listen here, bust, and then kick that out.
Hello.
Hello.
Oh, there's the Internet down for me.
I hear you.
You're toxic and awful.
When none of the full people respond, I get considered.
Hello.
OK, anyway, we'll kick on.
What?
Fallen Kingdom. It was shit.
I hate it so much.
I need to write on his Twitter or Colin Trevorrow's Instagram about how they're
so he's making a comparison.
He said he did not like the new Jurassic World.
Therefore, he's not going to.
Oh, it was somebody's Twitter.
What did he say?
Oh, he's going to go.
So he's saying I hate the new Jurassic World.
And so I'm going to go on their respective Twitter and Instagrams and rant at them.
And he's trying to say that, like, that's, you know, something a crazy person would do.
No, no, no, I know that I was saying.
But what whose Twitter in particular?
It sounds like he made some serious gaps on whoever's Twitter.
Jay Bay owner is the director and then Colin Trevorrow, Trevorrow.
OK, OK.
The right to Jay Bay owner, Jay Bay owner, Jay Bay owner.
And not worthless.
We need to kill themselves for being such pieces of shit.
Do you see how ridiculous that sounds?
That's pretty ridiculous.
Nobody has. Nobody has done that.
It's like point us to the video you found.
If someone say it, I'm going to fucking kill the cast and crew of TLJ.
When it's put in the context of something that you're not deeply enthralled with.
I hope you understand how insane, how psychopathic this sounds.
How is it?
I don't think anybody needed that comparison to understand.
And nobody in their right minds thinks that these people are normal or defends the things that they did.
I mean, this is it's just it's typical.
Take something that the fringe outside might do if your audience gets large enough
and use that to push your narrative that this is a commonplace thing
and use that to demonize everybody.
They continue to do this with this.
Do you guys remember the this down?
What is it down with Disney's treatment of Star Wars?
Do you guys recall that?
It continues to get referenced to this day.
It continues.
All the big articles reference it.
So it was down with Disney's treatment of Star Wars.
It was some account that was created on Facebook and Twitter.
It had about 85 likes and whatsoever in the comments.
And it was always taking making these basically it was it was it seemed like someone was creating an account.
Right.
And so those account that account that had 85 likes or 100 likes and maybe like 50 followers on Twitter.
They continue to reference that account to this day of the account that organized the The Last Jedi hate on Rotten Tomatoes.
And I'm like that account was it had no support whatsoever.
You know, and they just continue to reference that account and give it credibility.
And now the account's been removed, by the way, off social media.
But this is what they do.
Like rape day.
Oh, fuck.
They're not going to get that reference.
My favorite game, though, it's not as good as gay will.
It's not a game for me.
It's a lifestyle.
Go ahead.
Oh, yeah, it's the this is just reading chat.
There's someone said, like, I feel like this guy would ironically do the things he's talking about.
Yes, it's like he seems to be a little unhinged.
Yeah, like I don't think I've seen anybody who's this like other than the guy in that in the car.
I forget the name of the guy.
You know, the one that was going fucking millennials like.
Oh, that was fantastic.
Like if anyone took that and was like, sees a psycho, I'd be like, oh, no, he's just having fun.
Like Jesus and everything comes down to like that.
Why don't you kill something because they didn't like a movie?
Does that happened?
Um, I think it's never out there somewhere.
If you look hard enough on the fringes of some group.
I mean, if there's a million people who are fans of Star Wars, I'm sure somewhere out there,
if you look hard enough, you'll find some crazy person who takes it too far.
But hey, that's enough.
One person, one crazy person out there is enough to paint the whole group or something.
Pretend of the fucking Jedi.
Return of the fucking Jedi.
Oh, that was that was good shit.
This what comes to mind when you don't like a movie.
This type of shit is one step away from following your waitress down a dark alley clutching a knife
because she gave you a salad fork for your steak.
Wait, how do you just say so gymnastics involved in this is unreal.
Can we rewind to that?
I yeah, I must say this is some next level shit.
I hope you understand how insane, how psychopathic it sounds.
How is this what comes to mind when you don't like a movie?
This type of shit is one step away from following your waitress down a dark alley
clutching a knife because she gave you a salad fork for your steak and you might see.
So when he says that in a conversation, you you you get up from your chair, wide eyed
and start slowly moving away because you're like, oh, OK, you're one of those people.
Yeah, you know what?
Dislike it like you're like, yeah, you should take them to I'm going to go.
I agree. I'm going to go to the bathroom.
I'll be back in just a second.
Stay right here.
Please don't move. Stay here.
Don't follow me, please.
I will be right back.
Just you wait, Mr.
Buster. Yeah, we need that.
Stop it. Get some help clip right now.
Get some help.
But yeah, like, wow, he jumps to chasing a waitress down an alleyway with a knife.
Got that from saying mean things to people on social media.
I literally have to poo, so y'all carry on.
I'll be back in a moment.
One step away, Rags, one step away from chasing that waitress.
There's more than that.
I'm chasing that waitress.
I'm going to fucking shit down her throat.
Oh, God, Jesus Christ.
I think she preferred to just die for the invite.
You go to stab her.
She's like, it's OK to hate the last gen.
I'd be like, oh, OK, you know what?
We're coming from this.
Good now. We're good.
This dude is no more than Lee.
This this is weird shit.
You know what I mean? Like.
Have you guys encountered stuff like this that often?
All the time.
Yeah, I mean, especially on Twitter, my God, on Twitter,
on Twitter constantly.
But I I enjoy it.
That's why I don't block people on Twitter.
I do mute people after I use them and make videos based off their stupidity.
I just I treat them like hookers, basically.
I just kind of use them, abuse them, and I'm done with them.
And so but yeah, I mean, I get so much.
I'm not saying that the Internet said it, so I'm just confirming it.
But but yeah, I mean, the crazy, crazy mental gymnastics
is what I've always said that they go through to try and.
Their own mind of what we are because we don't like a movie
that they seem to think that we have to like
and that we have offended them because we've told them your movie is not good.
It's OK if you like your movie, but it's still not good.
I've got some missions for the John Adams spider already.
Really? Yeah.
I know Bayowans.
He said that we probably won't get the drawing until the next episode.
Oh, well, that'll be that'll be the the fucking pro opener.
Yeah, these are these are something else.
It's funny. Oh, I can't wait.
This is I'll drop them in the the Discord chat
so you guys can see the same as.
So this is the first one.
It will make sense later.
No, it's just me.
I'm going to write my question.
I'm going to write my question.
This one's like kind of awesome in a way, like the style.
You can like the last one.
I love how it's got the wig wig.
Yeah. You go like a classic Photoshop style with that.
Oh boy.
All men are enjoyed by the unalienable right to like.
Oh, my God.
Oh, I'm stupid and wonderful at the same time.
So anyway, is it you here, Rex?
I am here. I have returned.
Everything went well.
Did you see the spider memes following?
No, I was focused on.
You got to see this. Check out the chat. You'll see.
I mean, it's pretty good.
I will. It will make sense later.
George, trust me, the second one.
Oh, I like the elevator down by the creator with the in any
inalienable right to like the last.
I like the little quill on his thing.
Oh, knowing your waitress down a dark alley clutching a knife.
Oh, yeah. She gave you a salad fork for your steak.
And you might think that's an extreme comparison.
It's not terrible.
Oh, oh, wait, wait, wait.
Sorry. The chat did not hear it.
The chat didn't hear it yet. Hang on.
It's nothing but harassment in my last.
Oh, shit. Kicked forward. Fuck.
Sorry, because step aside.
Bin Laden, some new terrorists are in town.
They've got it.
They've got to hear this.
That's an extreme comparison.
It's not these people are verbal terrorists.
And so they go.
They've heard it now, like there's no way that just when you thought
just when you thought he couldn't go any further with the craziness,
he he goes crazier. Oh, verbal terrorist.
It's like a rap name.
Like I'm the verbal terrorist.
You know, breaks on this crazy train to what the fuck, Bill?
It doesn't take much to earn yourself the title of verbal terror.
You just got to dislike the last joy, huh?
Wow. It's an embarrassment.
Wow. Verbal terrorists of the what?
Brood. It's a toxic brood.
It's a toxic.
Isn't it like a terrorist of the toxic brood?
God, that's yeah.
You got to make notes on that one, Mahler.
And this guy's giving me way too much material song name for you.
Because, yeah, just in case you don't know, right.
So like we've been running any fap now, I think it's six months as of recently.
And I make an April Fool's video where I basically just pretend to be
all the people we cover mixed into one personality.
And I create quotes based on all the things we come across over the year.
So, you know, April 1st is going to be funny.
But like I'm already we're up to like five consistent sentences already
from this guy that'll just they're going to be in next year's April Fool's.
And people will be like, where the fuck did you get this nonsense?
What the fuck's a verbal terrorist?
They'll be like, someone said that.
Somebody actually said that.
Maybe you should just re-upload this.
Needs to be stopped.
It's nothing but harassment.
In my last Jedi Defense video, I mentioned that the harassment
was a bit much against Kelly Marie Tran, who plays Rose.
A while ago, she deleted her Instagram posts.
I, along with many others, have come to the conclusion that the assholes
who harassed her went too far and drove her.
How did you arrive at this?
Yeah, I was going to say, what evidence do you have to support that?
We would love God said so.
You know, I've seen so many people say that she was harassed
and I have yet to see one bit of harassment on any of her like posts or whatever.
It's just, yeah, it's that unfortunate moment of it happened.
It happened. It happened.
Everyone said you should go.
Why do we know that?
So can you show me like a screenshot or something?
No, it's just silent.
You know, it's not even these idiots trying to fake some screenshots at this point.
Like, I haven't even tried that.
We've already done it with Vic Mignana.
They can do it to defend Kelly Marie Tran to your love the way he framed it.
He's like, we came to the conclusion.
It's like, because you didn't have proof.
He's just concluded like, OK, that's I have conclusive proof.
He's like, no, you just I just concluded based off of,
you know, stuff, things.
But what a video terrorist.
Off Instagram.
Again, if you hate the character, I could give two shit.
So you do care. No.
So you're making a video about it.
So you couldn't give two shit.
Yeah, right. You must get annoyed by that one.
That's the fucking hell.
It's like, OK, it's boring.
It's like when people say
it will do it wrong all the time.
It's really similar to this when they say I couldn't care less or I could care less.
Right. One of those is correct.
If you say I could care less, it means you care.
You mean to say you couldn't care less, right?
Which means you do not care.
It's not possible for you to care any less because you don't care.
So if you're trying to say that, please don't say I could care less
because that means you do care.
I could care less about my parents.
We're talking about a guy who unintentionally
put castrated Rambo.
Listen, listen, baby steps, Wolf, baby.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
But he's right.
Well, it's not for how's that for verbal terrorism for you?
Fucking go get it.
I didn't consent to having to look up the definition of weather
and finding out what it really meant.
That's true.
He's a he is a terrorist of some form.
I could give two shits if you do, but leave the actor alone.
Seriously, there's no need to waste your time commenting on their Instagram.
By the way, just an obvious.
I know we said this on your phone before, but like the people who go after
like legitimately go after these people heavily hard
just because they hate the movie, you telling them not to because it's mean.
No, they will not care.
They're they're not going to give a flying fuck
whether or not some rando like you said, I was like, oh, this guy.
This guy said I was toxic and evil and then I should stop.
Oh, I guess you're telling them simultaneously that they destroyed
the like Star Wars as a whole, but I'm sure they'd actually argue
that's something they'd want at this point.
So you're actually encouraging them.
Someone's people in the chat are saying leave Brittany alone.
I it's Christ.
I know people who don't know what that video is.
Oh, yeah, that's it.
Yeah, that's some old internet stuff, isn't it?
Like you go.
Oh, man, when the German South Park
like parodied all of the most popular YouTube like viral videos.
Yeah, and that's all around the same time we made that music video.
Someone even said he sounds like the hell bender.
Nourish that we really alone.
It's kind of famous now, isn't he?
I was so shocked to find out that was a dude.
Oh, didn't chocolate rain guy make a let's play channel at one point?
Or to be made a he made a Dr.
Pepper commercial just when he had like a Twitch stream and he was
someone in Chaska to know about this.
I remember because I was on Twitch and when people were like chocolate
rain guys back and he's got a Twitch channel, he was like
actually did really well for whatever.
I don't know if he's still going, though.
The Internet's weird.
Don't harass people, guys.
More Twitter and insulting them to the point of leaving social media.
Quite recently, though, she spoke out against the harassment
and her fellow actors, including Mark Hamill.
Go ahead and show what she's saying of Mark Hamill.
Believe it or not, he got a lot of shit, too.
Here's why. He has often stated that he has issues with Luke's character.
Even now, it's a little hard for him to accept.
And thanks to these videos that are taken out of context.
Taking him out of context.
Oh, I ain't taking him out of context.
You have a consistent whole take of him explaining in detail his issue.
Then you go, well, it's not a context.
That that whole conversation, Skywalker.
If you if you just rewind the clip by an additional two seconds,
he says everything I'm about to say is false.
Oh, oh, there you go.
I don't have the actual movies, one of the videos he's citing.
Oh, yeah, that's one of the the film is false information right there, guys.
I trust it. I like film.
God. Three people figured that he hated the movie.
And when he publicly stated that he regrets being critical about it,
the toxic fans thought of him as a sellout and claimed that Disney paid off
this tragic narrative with another count.
Where who are these people?
The the you're one of them, right?
Do you mean toxic?
The Count Mahler and the toxic three are all toxic.
Just I'm saying on the counter.
Oh, shit. Fuck.
I notice you didn't think I feel like I probably missed out on a few.
People are going to have to tell us how many toxics there really were,
because I've completely gotten about the counter at the point.
Saying he regrets voicing it.
So it's like, yeah, so it's not that he like pulls it back.
He's like, I shouldn't have said it.
All right, chat.
Whenever they say whenever this dude says toxic and we forget about it,
just spam toxic until we remember to do it.
Yeah, toxic milk and then like a bell.
I know this toxic and milk bell that'll work.
And we'll say something positive.
That's just retarded.
If he was paid to shut up about his negative thoughts, the R word.
Oh, my God, that's offensive.
Oh, that's a very that's a very toxic and offensive.
I'm I am shaking right now.
You guys are.
We're doing these.
He said he said the retard.
We're the part. Yeah.
Yeah. God, he did.
He just call people the retard.
I don't think I think it.
Yeah, guys, guys, I got to leave the stream.
I can't take this.
This is a lot of toxicity right now.
I understand. I understand.
Yeah, I need to go.
I need to go and watch some Hillary Clinton videos to get replenished.
You are survived tonight.
Something to watch.
Yeah, they mentioned it in chat, so I figured I should probably bring it up.
You guys, I'm assuming
have seen that Mark Hamill posted a picture of him and Harrison Ford hugging.
And he said, yeah, I covered that.
What a reunion could have been.
But it's like, oh, T.L.J.
Fads must be so upset that he did that.
Yeah, they'd be like, hey, oh, yeah.
The fuck?
Shut the fuck up.
Don't do that.
Make it look like fucking shit.
I love the picture of the two on the bench and they're just smiling
and they just look so happy to finally be done with Star Wars.
I kind of want like kind of family member of this.
Just get a fucking mobile.
Have them act out a scene as if they saw each other.
OK, you know, it's like, I know at this point, I'll take anything.
It's like Disney.
Make it fun. Yeah, I did.
He did. He was catching hell from from the T.L.J.
Defenders when when that picture is posted.
I covered that. I made a video on it.
Did you, Jeff?
I was a deep and Captain Marvel.
OK, so that was a that's what she said.
Deep and Captain Marvel, were you?
Oh, I regret.
Everything I've ever said.
Like, honestly, I already saw that there were videos for this.
That's all I'm talking about.
But there was a potential button double for her.
We'll talk about that.
Yeah, she got a flat butt.
Like, I was like, they would never do everybody.
I'm sure everybody's seen a Tom Holland meme with.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, definitely.
Tom Holland got a video on that.
He's got that spider, but he's got it.
He's got a he's got a thorax on him.
I'll tell you what.
Change become more more submissions.
Oh, dear.
This this John Adams spider thing is working.
All right, so this first one
is not actually the John Adams thing, but still.
If you think it's an extreme comparison, I love to hear that Jason in the background.
Jason, Jason, I follow your near dreams that you got this shit, man.
I love these, these little cartoons.
John, what are you doing?
Just me, George.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm not going to do that.
Just me, George.
This might not be important now, but I've seen things.
I love these little spider milk.
I love the cute ones.
Yeah, I love these adorable ones.
Oh, it's so good.
It's so wholesome.
These are the kinds of memes that butter my bread.
I love this.
So many people wanted to make this one.
This is the time.
Oh, who is the actor who played John Adams in the TV series years ago?
It was Ben.
Paul Giamatti, Paul Giamatti.
Yeah, I was I hope I hope someone, if you're making one, if you put Paul Giamatti
on a spider body, this will this will tickle my teeth in ways that I don't know
if you'll be able to just a helpful reminder.
We're the horrible toxic fans who encourage like death upon people.
What if what if we what if we got Paul Giamatti from the Amazing Spider-Man
two's head on there?
How about I was going to say that I hear in decree that future generations
have permission from the U.S.
Constitution to like the last Jedi.
And if they didn't, they are therefore guilty of perpetrating the hate
mall, hate mongering of the toxic of the toxic rude you say, John.
Oh, my God, this is turning into the next Kylo Ben.
Shit in the first place.
I'll be honest, when I first heard Mark Hamill say, I told Ryan,
I fundamentally disagree with him the second time in the third time.
The fucking I'm not even kidding.
There's like 20 different takes of him ripping into what they did with Luke.
It's the idea that it's some kind of random thought.
My framing it wrong.
It's like, come on.
I love this interviewer just smiling at him like, oh, that's really probably
because this isn't she's never experienced someone promoting a movie
and actually slamming it at the same time.
Like, look at this little frame of Mark.
He looks like he lost his mind.
That's not compute.
Liz, that is that famous one, isn't there, where it's like him and Ryan
Johnson and Mark just looks soulless like he's been killed.
Yeah, this really can't give what we can't give the fans what they want.
We've got to tell our own.
I was a big concern, but when I saw the film, I didn't see it the way he did.
I thought it was interesting how they handled Luke, but I saw it was toxic.
Pretty toxic, my dude.
You better walk that shit back.
It was interesting how they destroyed him entirely.
That's something that could pique your interest.
Yeah, I was interested from the time for the Jedi.
They weathered Luke to end.
Why?
Also, he'd often speak his opinions on Trump.
And he's pretty much against.
What does that have to do with it?
What?
OK, I literally do not care.
Two shit.
Oh, wait, was there a toxic?
I missed that.
Probers probably.
Yeah, everyone's ringing the bell.
I'm going to have to do it.
OK.
The toxic milk about.
I'm sorry, where did that come from?
I'm rolling that back a bit.
And.
Also, he'd often speak his opinions on Trump and he's pretty much against him.
I remember a time when he disagreed with someone.
What does that have to do with anything?
I'm curious.
I'm assuming he's going to pay that off somehow.
Earned a man bad.
He just disagreed.
Now it's a little rougher than that.
He'd probably be someone in Jabba's palace, that's for sure.
But all the assholes in the comments section are like,
you just earned yourself an unfollow.
Get out of politics.
Yeah, if you could stop being political, that'd be cool.
I mean, you know, this with anything happens to everybody.
Like, I'm curious what the point of this is, even.
Yeah, I mean, they always have to bring Trump into this no matter what.
Yeah, we got our Trump quota for the video.
We talked about Donald Trump and the Star Wars video.
We did it, guys.
We just put a little bit of that.
This is why I made videos in the past, which people have recently gotten mad,
complained about it.
But I think I made a video or a few months ago where I said Donald Trump will
make Star Wars great again and oh, my God, they were so mad and I only did it to
piss them off because I'm like, I know this is going to piss you guys off.
But yeah, this is a classic example.
There's really no reason to bring Trump into this at all.
Do you guys do you guys know about the Quinton reviews?
One, the famous one where he's reviewing Logan Paul's movie
and then he just randomly goes on a one minute Trump rant.
Out of nowhere.
It's just like, I fucking hate Trump.
Just randomly out of nowhere.
It's like, wait, whoa.
I didn't know about that.
Mark, stick to acting.
You're good at that.
Politics, not so much.
Stay out of politics.
And I'm sure there was a lot of comments saying, Mark, you're so on point
with what you just said.
Yeah, I don't get what's right.
Mark, I'd love to hear more of your opinions on politics.
We'll say since he's since he's in the business of screen sharing,
why don't we get some of those screen shares of Kelly Marie Tran being
harassed on it.
Oh, that's right. They don't exist. Sorry.
I'm sorry.
We had enough time to get these screen caps, but those screen caps,
we ran out of data on our RAM plan.
I mean, I'm sure we're about to find out the relevance of this, right, surely.
Yeah, it's all going to come together.
It's not like a fool.
Guess what?
No one cares.
You can complain all you'd like, but he's your president.
Can you please say, God, what does this have to do with the video?
Please stop.
It's annoying.
Oh, my God.
Stop dividing America.
OK, we get it.
It's like literally, what does this have to do with how many screen shots
is he going to share at the good he's done?
And then maybe just maybe we can make America great.
Dear Mark, maybe instead of worrying about Trump,
oh, my God, dark energy on invigorating the dying Star Wars franchise.
Look what you're seeing in Blue Dragon said shows no proof for one thing
but can take time to prove proof of something unrelated to the movies.
Like, yeah, yeah, OK.
It's like, all right, I guess.
Character arc.
Fuck off.
Honestly, there is really no point.
Oh, so what's the point?
What was the point of that?
What was the point of this?
What was the point of the Trump brand?
It's his opinion.
It's his Instagram.
And he can post whatever he wants real quick.
So doesn't this just invalidate his entire video?
Because if he'll go to those lengths to defend Mark Hamill's opinions,
people don't like the Last Jedi.
There we go.
Isn't that the same argument he's trying to?
Well, the problem is the way he's bringing it.
Because we're part of the toxic.
Yeah, he's he's like he's lumped us in like Amazing Lucas is one of the examples
he's throwing in with the people who like Vibly harass cast and crew.
We just we just all get lumped in.
So if you said to him, I thought I wasn't allowed to like the last day.
Like, no, that's fine.
It's when you harass them, would you be like, I don't do that?
And he's like, well, I'm going to be very disappointed
if I'm not featured in this video.
I'm just going to tell you right now.
I'm very disappointed.
Yeah, I feel like we won't make the point of it.
Same thing happened to Daisy Ridley.
Before she left social media, she posted a video recording
a protest march against gun violence.
Man, she doesn't even close her mouth and professional.
Honestly, if you don't agree with celebrities
and their opinions on politics that much, what?
Don't follow them and don't waste your time commenting against matters.
I'm still like, I'm still so confused.
The writer and director of The Last Jedi, Ryan Johnson,
or as the haters like to call him,
Ruined Johnson.
Call him roundhead, Johnson Brownhead.
Yeah, I like how much it bothers everybody.
He was like, I could give two sheds.
Like, apparently, apparently you sound invested in this
of his comment section, because they were going to be
spanned with comments like the last day.
I thought you're a shitty director and writer.
Does he think the reverse doesn't happen?
Where people go, let's go, he's amazing.
You're just a shitty critic.
There's there's annoying people everywhere.
Turns out it's Star Wars.
Oh, and he also received death threats.
This was his people yelling their videos.
Anybody here not received a death threat?
Oh, I get every other day, every other time.
Where's the video made about us?
That's like leave them alone.
Yeah, the toxic brutes coming for us.
First big budget blockbuster.
He did the best he could with it.
It was a whole life.
Wait, wait, wait.
You made Looper.
You made Looper.
That's what he could do with it.
What a bullshit argument.
Dude, it's funny though, because it's like, oh God,
that was his best first draft.
There's the best he could have done, guys.
There's nothing he could have done.
He couldn't have just he couldn't have just not used
his first draft.
Well, you just go like, Ryan, why don't you do a second?
He goes, I'm sorry.
What a second?
What?
Like, what is that?
What is that?
You know, you take the draft.
Yeah, the first draft.
He's like, that's not how movies are made.
All right.
Okay.
Movie trigger you this much.
It's just ridiculous.
How much effort?
It's all worth hearing me.
We triggered boys.
Jeff.
What?
I can't hear anybody.
Oh, we can hear you.
Hello.
You cut out, Jeff.
For me.
Hello.
Jeff's cutting out.
Yeah.
For me, buddy.
I don't hear Jeff at all.
Hear me now?
Chat.
We can hear you.
Jeff.
The toxic milk bell, Jeff.
I'm here.
Yeah.
Can we get?
Yeah.
Ray.
Well, he can't hear us.
We can hear him now.
This is this is this is weird.
You guys perfectly.
Oh, it seems like it's slightly delayed.
You.
You often say something to Jeremy.
We missed.
We happened.
I said this guy's hitting every buzzword.
Oh, now he's hitting.
Yes.
Yes, he is.
Yes, he is.
And then he's getting himself mad, which is great.
Yeah.
It's quite the.
You don't even need us.
He doesn't even need the toxic fandom fandom.
Yes.
Someone said toxic brewed down.
These fans would put into harassing an actor or filmmaker out of your hatred.
Grow the fuck up.
All of you.
Oh, boy.
The anger.
Yeah.
The three people out there who did this.
Yeah.
My body.
You can't tell us to grow up when you're making a video like this.
This video is rather juvenile.
How dare you, sir?
He's entitled to his opinion.
John Adams said so.
And the same thing happened years ago when the prequels came out.
And years later, George Lucas sold Lucasfilm to Disney because of the
backlash against the prequels.
Is that why?
Because he just wanted that sweet, sweet money.
I mean, I'm sure there's an element that he just didn't want to have to deal
with like the crap anymore.
I'm pretty sure he said publicly that like he didn't want to make any more
styles.
Didn't he say something like, why would you make movies when people just hate
you for it or something?
He said that.
But I'm sure good movies.
I'm sorry.
The idea that it's like, oh, he's through hatred that these horrible
things.
I don't think that there's a director that doesn't, especially in the age
of social media.
You just can't be any kind of public figure and not get hate to the point
where people bring it up and like, yeah, that's just it's part of the
territory, man.
There's nothing you can do about that.
It's a fool's area.
We live in.
Also, yeah, a couple of people saying apparently donated most of the money
you got as well.
That's true.
Hooray.
Yeah, he donated.
He donated.
He donated almost all of it to school and charity.
Good, George.
Good on you, George.
I'm not a fan of hating Christians since acting in Attack of the Clones
or Jake Lloyd's in The Phantom Menace, but they didn't deserve to be
harassed the way they were.
It wasn't.
Why did he show that picture as if?
Well, yeah.
Like, why would he show that?
You know how old I was at the time that movie came out?
I didn't have anything to do with that.
I was like, I don't think there wasn't.
What is he suggesting?
What did that come out like?
Ninety nine.
Yeah.
OK, so I was literally two years old at that point.
Thanks.
I guess I'm part of the toxic brood from a real.
Well, you were seedling.
I was just cooking in the womb to be in the toxic.
Great.
Thanks.
Two year old me really care.
And their fault their acting was terrible in those movies.
It was because of George Lucas's poor direction given to both actors.
You can't know that for sure.
I would happily say it's both of them rather than like to be like,
it's not the fact they're just criticized.
Did he just criticize George Lucas now?
A filmmaker.
Is he trying to join the toxic brood?
He's trying to get into the brood.
Be the brood.
Come on.
The little pamphlet to cover.
It's like, how many women have you chased on an alleyway?
Just the three.
And you're like, three.
That's great.
That's it.
That's great.
That's a good.
We got jackets.
And after who played Jar Jar.
And after who contemplated suicide after the constant Jar Jar.
Notice how the SJWs did that.
It makes me feel like he's very young when he like loses his shit randomly and is too
close to his microphone.
You know what I mean?
Yeah.
Like, this beauty is terrible now.
And this is where he's lacking the context because it doesn't fit his narrative.
It was the media that he blamed his near suicide on.
If you go and read what he said.
But that's clearly not one of your strong points.
So but it was the media that he said that that pushed him to that point because of the
media's portrayal of him and constantly talking about him lighting it.
So but I mean, narratives, you know, I think most if not, I'm talking like 90 percent of
the audience of the Phantom Menace never even knew the actor that was Jar Jar Binks.
I didn't.
I knew nothing about the actor.
I knew he showed up in episode two.
This is just such a not the city.
Make a point.
It wasn't his fault.
He played an annoying.
Points are hard though.
Grading, useless, and completely unnecessary.
Stop harassing the actor by killing these things.
I'm trying to get he's he's making his play for the brood.
He really wants in character.
It was George Lucas's fault for writing and including Jar Jar in the Phantom Menace.
Honestly, George Lucas has ruined Star Wars before Disney saved it.
Disney saved it.
He saved it.
Oh, fucking hell.
Oh boy.
This guy had both standards.
But he's he's saying that you.
Will ruin Star Wars, but now George Lucas.
What the fuck?
I mean, have you ever seen his like motivation or better than that?
It's like Disney save Star Wars guys.
You're like, oh, oh.
But let's talk about the woman who so many fans actually believe is the one ruining Star Wars.
He's asserting that they're not fans.
He hasn't actually said why he's doing the Scotsman shit every time.
Yeah.
He hasn't actually said why.
Oh, she got her own intro to this kind of Kathleen can better be part of this.
I better be fucking part of this last Jedi haters and the producer of the first two entries in the new trilogy
and the soon to be titled episode nine along with the spinoffs.
Quite a number.
Right.
Oh, more.
Again, did anybody did anybody go and see The Force Awakens?
Did anybody in the entire world go, hey, hey, everybody.
Hey, I'm really I'm really excited to go see that new Star Wars movie because I hear Kathleen Kennedy produced it.
No fucking body said that.
No one fucking person said that.
I had literally never even heard of Kathleen Kennedy until after The Last Jedi.
Yeah, because people are looking to find out what went wrong.
It's like, was it you?
And she's like, yeah, I had a lot of like, isn't she the one that approved the script?
Yeah, she was the one that was like, Ryan, your first draft.
OK, brilliant.
Go back and watch the director in the Jedi, that documentary.
She's basically kissing his ass the entire production.
Yeah, well, you know, up harassing you, you toxic, rude fan of Star Wars.
She's the forceful hand of the dagger that has been driven into the hearts of their favorite franchise.
There's been many calls from fans for her to step down.
Many claim that she has no idea what she's doing, that she has no love.
She doesn't.
Clearly she does.
She has no fucking vision whatsoever.
I like the like these statements he's in his head.
He's like, these are so fucking ridiculous.
And we just said, you're like, mm hmm.
Mm hmm.
Yeah, vision.
And she's turning this franchise into.
Yes.
Give me a fucking.
All right.
Now, let's put aside the hypocrisy appraising The Force Awakens and bashing her for The Last Jedi.
I was going to say, yeah, that's.
Yeah, it's not even it's not even invalid to do that, to be like, to celebrate one of the other.
They're not the same film.
Yeah.
No one says Hitler was terrible because he was on board with the Audubon.
Hitler was terrible.
There are some there's a fringe minority out there who think this is I'm not saying this, but they're saying this that.
Oh, toxic.
Yeah. Yeah.
There's a toxic fan base out there.
And apparently I see a toxic bell.
We can't trust every toxic bell.
Someone must have.
Did anyone hear it?
We heard it then.
I can't remember.
I was thinking about it.
I was too busy thinking about the fear.
Put it in the toxic belt and they're like, well, we don't trust the toxic.
Now, if everybody was ringing the toxic bell, we'd know that she produced this amazing movie just as much as the one amazing.
It's not amazing, buddy.
He keeps letting his bias slip.
Like if he's trying to make the argument, you shouldn't be mean to people over whether or not you like the movie.
He keeps consistently going like this amazing movie, how they saved.
So you're like, dude, dude, dude.
I've got some bad news for you.
She also produced Rogue One.
And the only reason Solo bombed is because the ass hat haters decided to throw their lackluster boycott.
Oh, wow.
That's amazing.
Their lackluster boycott failed as a result.
But if it worked, then it's not really lackluster.
Yeah, you can't dismiss the effort of the boycott by saying it didn't have an effect by at the same time saying that's the only reason it failed.
Isn't it like the first Star Wars movie to ever fail, too?
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
I love that.
Like I said earlier, remember, I said that simultaneously these enemy groups have to be both incredibly powerful and incredibly weak simultaneously.
This is exactly then he says this.
It's like fuck.
It's like these people go off of scripts and you know exactly what they're going to say before they say it.
I want to make it funny.
I like what I'll say.
The product only effectively failed because of the ineffective boycott.
There are many people who like to use the argument that Kathleen Kennedy promised to protect the characters that we love.
The same thing is to protect these characters.
She brutally matted them in their sleep.
Just make sure that they still continue to live in the way that you created them.
No.
Oh, my God.
I can't believe she's in there.
She's awful.
Look at her.
She looks like a corpse.
That is toxic, sir.
She's just got Disney juice flowing through her that keeps her animated.
Maybe that's like the maybe that's the reason why there's like some weird amorphous bulge in her neck right there.
No, it's because she's like that bad guy from that Hellblade movie.
Here's a movie.
Yeah.
Oh, hell boy.
Hellboy boy.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Right.
The assassin a guy.
Oh, you're talking about the German knife wielding.
Yeah.
Yeah.
He's got like the weird.
Yeah.
The man stuff that's coming.
Just like the power of like clockwax.
That's just a wind or so.
She goes to sleep and I will take care of your characters.
You're like, no, you won't.
You're not.
No, ma.
That's a very good.
Then the characters we grew up with started dying.
And the fear.
He's like, he's like, she says you would take care of them and then they die.
I just use that ironically declares that she like is going to take care of them,
but then they're all killed.
He's making our points for us.
We don't have to do much work here.
They still continue to live in the way that you created in chat.
Take care as in kill.
That's a very comforting statement.
Then the characters we grew up with.
I'm sure it was meant to comfort him as they before they did what they did.
Do you understand that there is no way we could possibly expect to see Luke,
Han and Leia last for countless decades.
I agree.
Let's go.
What do you think that we wanted like a 95 year old Mark Hamill.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's true.
Darth Vader three.
Oh, I'm making my day.
We want to just shut the storm.
It's like, I'm not expecting much.
I'm just expecting that we will dig up Carrie Fisher's corpse under the grave
and just put strings on her and she's on her on the set.
Yeah.
Hello.
Hello.
People.
More fellow.
I want episode nine to be weakened at Leah's and they just press cocaine
into her.
The cocaine brings her back to life.
Maybe that's my next comic.
It's like one of my favorite tropes with the defending the last Jedi where they
they take up a criticism and then they reverse it to the nth degree.
So you're like, maybe Leia shouldn't have blown out into space while surviving.
Like, maybe that should have happened.
And they go, oh, you want it to be that she's not even in the film.
You don't think I should own an AR-15?
What do you want everyone to have nuclear bombs in their backyard?
I don't know why you've drawn that.
Someone said weekend at Alderaan.
Breakfast at Leah's.
The first movie we have Han back, he's dead.
Luke dead.
You know, Leia gets resurrected by the whatever.
Just like, maybe don't do that.
Well, you want them in for a million movies.
I didn't realize those were the two options, but fuck it.
I'll take the latter of that case.
I'll take the million.
You remember the stories about Michael Arndt's original script, right?
About episode seven. Do you remember that?
Michael Arndt actually wrote before JJ came on, he was writing the script
and the criticism from Kathleen Kennedy and Lucasfilm was that Luke,
this is exactly what the criticism was.
Luke Skywalker was taking too much attention away from the new characters.
Who cares about the new characters?
Yeah, exactly.
Shocking, shocking revelation there, Kathleen.
Fucking Luke Skywalker is the most important person in Star Wars.
Shocking revelation that people would actually not respond to unknown characters.
Instead, Luke Skywalker was commanding too much attention.
That's why they had him rewrite everything to push Luke into the background.
Yeah, I remember that time when we had a whole trilogy about how the main character was born.
Remember that?
It's a lot of people accept it casually.
They're like, yeah, the new trilogy couldn't have been about Luke Hanalei.
You need to make space for the new.
It's like, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, why?
Well, you know, because we've had a trilogy about them.
It's like, so?
So?
It's like, you realize the MCU has like seven movies with Iron Man now.
Funny James Bond movies have there been Mauler?
Twenty-four.
So we can have more Han, Luke, and Leia.
And it's like, why not have another trilogy for them, progressing them all as characters?
And then the following trilogy is a sort of passing the torch thing with these new characters that maybe were introduced very in minor ways in the trilogy.
I don't know why this accepted.
Cobra Kai. Cobra Kai did it perfectly.
Have you guys seen Cobra Kai?
I haven't, no.
Fantastic.
And it's it is perfectly done.
And a lot of the reason that so many people were drawn to it was because they looked at it and said, this is how Star Wars should have been done, because it starts out with the legacy characters from Karate Kid.
And it tells you the story from what they've been doing for the past 30 years.
And then it slowly starts to, after they've reestablished those legacy characters, once the story progresses, then it starts slowly bringing the new characters into the fold.
And you start caring about those new characters.
And by the end of it, it's kind of like what it should have done.
Exactly. Exactly.
And like if they would have done this the right way, if they would have reintroduced Luke, Han, and Leia, and given us context to what's been going on in the last 30 years and not shit all over these characters, by the time we get to episode nine, we would all be invested in these new characters.
Because you would have been making us care about them through your storytelling.
But unfortunately, criticizing means you're part of the toxic brood.
So we'll make t-shirts and sell them and make money off your stupidity.
Alright.
Shouldn't wear those to celebration, hear me?
The toxic brood.
Yeah.
I'm gonna get...
The brood has arrived.
You need like rock symbol hands on either side of it, right?
Yeah.
Just to own it.
Like, no, you guys are supposed to hate it.
Great grandchildren idolizing a scientifically preserved Mark Hamill, slicing down stone troopers as Luke Skywalker, and who never dies.
That's what we want.
It really bothered me when both Rags Wolf and everyone I've ever met requested that.
I was like, guys, come on.
That's a little over the top, don't you think?
And it's so weird how everybody wants that who didn't like The Last Jedi.
It's just so strange.
The neverending suggestion I hear.
The neverending story.
Yep.
The neverending Hamill.
The neverending Hamill.
My hair is growing on my fucking head.
Her promise is not for the lives of our heroes, it's for their integrity.
Oh, wow.
We heard you the first time.
And it was done back then too.
Dude.
He's doing a Bob Shitman to me.
Me boob.
Sure man.
The fact that the heroes we love wouldn't be turned into polar opposites of what we've grown to adore.
That's exactly what happened.
All our heroes have held their flaws, their quirks, their personalities, and their heroism.
They all held the same pride and true literally no.
The way that he didn't actually go there.
Very heroic.
What is now this video evolving into anyway?
Now it's like a defense in The Last Jedi, I guess.
What the point is, he's all over the place.
Well, how can you be all over the place and at the same time, nowhere at all?
Simultaneously.
He's like, he's everywhere, but he's nowhere at all.
The transparent thin liquid.
If this ends up being a troll, like, I don't know if you saw or heard about Logan Paul's new upload.
Have you heard about that?
No.
About the flat earth thing?
No, it wasn't.
They actually trolled all the flat earthers.
Oh, okay.
And it's actually great.
I'm not a fan of Logan Paul, but if this guy ends up trying to convince us that he wants to be part of the fandom menace, I will be so happy.
This troll video is trolling.
That's my only hope.
That's my only hope for him at this point.
If not, he's got problems.
Tona, Han was still the smarky smart mouth fly boy.
Leia, the strong and driven leader.
And Luke, the flawed and wavering soul.
I love it.
It's so surface level.
You may as well just be like, like, Luke, he held his lightsaber.
Han.
He was like, you know, snarky to some people.
Leia, she looked at the camera.
They're the same.
He looks at the camera in the new films, too.
It's a new character.
Yeah, he said it in my part, too.
It's like, look, Luke is wearing clothes.
He's always done that.
You can't deny that.
I remember when you were closing.
What more do you want?
A good movie?
I agree.
A lot.
These characters deserve their spot in our Hall of Heroes we keep in our minds.
But because you're too busy finding the flaws.
Yeah, we're going out of our way.
Oh, this...
I really want this video to be a parody now.
The fact that he's just like, he's gone so far to the other end.
He's like, you're looking for flaws.
Like, oh.
Oh, they're not just blatant in our face.
Are we here?
All right.
For the just right conversation.
Or for it was like, finally get him to the point where he can't deny a flaw in the film.
And then he just goes.
Yeah.
Yes, but there are flaws there, right?
It's like, just looking for them.
Just right.
Go back to making good videos again.
All right.
Some of your older videos.
But because you're too busy finding the flaws, you miss the achievements.
You lock them out of your hearts and refuse to.
Lock them out of your hearts.
I noticed that too.
Celebrate who they were and what they've done because you're so focused on the missed opportunity.
Oh, that's a Photoshop nightmare.
The opportunity of what they could have done.
They've done enough.
Or die.
They saved the galaxy countless times.
And now it's their time to enjoy their place in the history books.
So acknowledge their heroics.
Cherist their lessons.
And always remember-
What?
I think Disney tarnished their legacy.
We're just observing the things that other people did.
We're not-
What time are you guys on?
Because I think I'm probably behind you.
What, 12, 14?
Yeah.
12, 13.
If any one of you guys can drag it back to like 12.05, it should knock us all back into sync.
12.05?
Yeah, just drag it back and then hit play.
It took me up to 12.18.
Yeah, now I'm at 12.19.
I'm just not-
See, can't please get it in space.
I'm harpy on the screen.
They're heroics.
Interesting.
Is everyone at 12.05 now?
We're at 12.05 now.
All right.
Cherist their lessons.
And always remember the journeys you took with them.
But don't tarnish their memories with hate and prejudice.
It's not what any of our heroes would have wanted.
It's like a B-movie.
Oh my god.
This is like the inverse of that petition to like save Justice League by seeing it six times in theaters.
The heroes were there for us.
We have to be there for them.
It's like, no.
It's like a 12-year-old.
These characters wouldn't want you to do this.
No, I pictured the Luke Skywalker of the OT just like in a glass box screaming,
like, please save me.
So as for the remarks about her position, her ability, and her vision,
I'm going to read you a list of movies that she's been a part of.
Oh my god.
Shut up, damn it.
She always pisses me off.
She was the coffee holder for Steven Spielberg who actually made the movie.
I really hate this argument so bad.
What she made now doesn't suck because things that they were associated with in some capacity in the past weren't terrible.
This is the fundamental issue even if he was right and she was solely responsible for those movies.
No one else was accredited.
That doesn't mean she can't do bad in the future.
Nothing to do with The Last Jedi.
Get through the Back to the Future part.
Also, you can do research here.
Don't fucking read this.
Yeah, we're no one eating this.
They got the mention Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.
Sinless?
Sinless?
Speaking of dinosaurs.
Sinless?
Sinless?
My god, learn how to speak.
Unless you want to bet he doesn't mention Kingdom of the Crystal Skull.
That's a wrong thing.
I don't know what's worse, if he doesn't mention it or if he does.
That's very true.
There's a whole selection of things that have to be shown.
Oh boy.
Like I said, I know I said it already, but the John Adams spider shit.
People are really bashed under this.
There's a take.
I'm putting this one on first.
You guys are going to love this one.
This is number one.
I like that they cropped it so the shoulders are exactly.
More please.
Oh boy.
I love it.
Honey, did you hear me?
Yes.
Yes.
That's what I'm talking about.
Oh boy.
I've never seen that movie, by the way.
It makes it Spider-Man 2.
Oh my god.
There he is.
There's Paul Giamatti.
Switch.
Fucking hell.
We are.
We.
We the toxic.
Half of the cast traded around.
That's my favorite play.
It's my favorite pub.
The cast traded Ram.
It's great.
Bingo.
We the people.
We need to get the spider.
We need to get the spider from a wild wild west with Paul Giamatti's head on
it now.
The force is female shit as well.
I will take care of your favorite character.
There we go.
No.
Oh no.
No letter.
Just let her die.
Oh goodness.
It's incredibly well made.
That's what I'm talking about.
That's what I'm talking about.
That's what I'm talking about.
Oh goodness.
It's incredibly well made.
So quick as well.
Those those meme artists man.
Sick Park.
The Flintstones.
Balto.
The Indian in the cupboard.
Congo.
The bridges of Madison County.
Twister.
The best of Roger Rabbit.
The lost world.
Six cents.
Artificial intelligence.
Like her entire IMDB at this point.
Wait.
What if he does list kingdom with a crystal skull?
He might.
He might be getting there.
Oh geez.
He'll be coming up.
This is oh five.
Yeah.
No Munich war of the worlds.
A curious case of Ben.
No.
I have no self awareness.
Do it.
Guys.
She made kingdom with a crystal.
This is not a point of a German executive producer of kingdom with a
crystal skull.
But to slap that baby on your resume.
Oh my God.
Reading.
Without any context to what.
Oh no.
No.
Oh my God.
How do you put this in his.
What do you think this was a good idea.
Oh.
This is refuting.
This is refuting your own point.
Why did she.
I heard for him right now.
No way.
It doesn't get it.
He doesn't get it.
What's his name again.
Wait a minute Matt.
Oh my God.
It retarded me into hiccups.
Oh my goodness.
What a failure.
He's perfectly.
And onto this one.
Is he about to say something.
Oh you might be making a joke.
I'd imagine.
I was just going to say.
He's perfectly shown the road map of like.
It just slowly rots into failure.
He's got some self awareness guys.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Some bad ones.
But I'm a huge fan.
I only saw the ones I don't remember.
I was.
I know.
No I was.
I was.
I haven't heard that it was.
Never saw Lincoln.
No haven't seen it.
I was born on Lincoln's birthday.
And Lincoln went to different high schools growing up.
Yes.
Did Lincoln have anything to say about.
The rights of liking the TLJ or.
I'm thinking some names are going to come away.
Score and 20 years ago.
That's why Lincoln voice.
You tried.
That's what's important.
I don't know why.
The Lost World was a mediocre sequel.
And three was comparable to a trash heap.
Urge me to hate her.
Not in the least.
Didn't know she didn't know those films.
We hate her because of the things that she has said and done.
We don't hate her because of her professional work on.
Other films to whatever degree you want to try and associate with her.
I love that he's not even sure.
How much influence she has in these films.
He's like.
That's a good one.
That's a bad one too.
I heard of Kat.
The first time I ever heard of Kathleen Kennedy was in 2012 when.
When she was appointed head of Lucas film,
I'd never heard of her prior to that.
And most.
Most people have never heard of her prior to that.
She's on all the Indiana Jones documentaries.
Look at that weird face.
She's got there.
Look at her nose.
How it's like all.
How long until they're digging her up out of a catacomb?
Along the museum.
If she's on.
Up to you.
She's got that weird abnormally small mouth for her face.
A nose that's very.
We all know.
Just because she's a woman,
you wouldn't ever make fun of the appearance of a man.
Look, look, I'm just saying.
If you put three quotations or three parentheses around each side of her nose,
you get.
You get an answer to all of this.
I don't understand.
The racialist.
The point is entitled to a flop.
Nobody is perfect.
Just a message for those who hated the last Jedi.
You think this woman ruined your child?
Yes.
Listen to this list again.
I mean, okay, wait.
Is this point.
She created some of the shoes involved with some of the greatest films of your
childhood.
So how can you say she ruined it?
It's like.
You could you could give someone an ice cream and knock it out of their hand.
If my dad, let's say, let's say I'm 14, 15 years old,
my dad comes home drunk, stabs my mom, rapes or slaps me and I run away.
How can you say that my dad ruined my life when he was responsible for my child?
You know, it's a great argument.
This woman is your childhood.
Definitely.
Kathleen Kennedy.
I support her because I could only hope to achieve what she has.
Not with this work.
Oh, he's a little emotional.
This man.
Yeah.
I would like be suicidal if I achieved what she has in the past decade.
I mean, if you're going to attach emotion into your video,
like when it's every four seconds, it kind of loses.
It makes you seem more unstable than passionate.
Like to the point where it's clipping audio.
You're like, oh, oh, this isn't good.
Does this dude even know what she actually did on all those movies?
No.
He wrote it, but I don't know if he knows what those mean.
Her name is on it.
So she did good.
She's the producer.
She has literally nothing to do with.
Well, congratulations.
It'll depend.
But I imagine that she's not the reason the great films were great.
That's my assumption.
You know, I would put money on it.
She has quite the kill death ratio when it comes to movies.
I'd also would like to point out something.
Colin Travaro, the asshat who wrote and directed this soft reboot.
Made this piece of Venus.
Wow, that was so funny.
Come on.
David Fincher had a better second film than you did.
Okay.
And wrote the terrible script for this complete dumpster fire.
Okay.
Was previously slated to direct episode nine.
I'll take it.
I'll fucking take it.
I mean, he called him an asshat.
That's pretty toxic behavior by calling a director director.
Just because he made a movie you didn't like, you called him a toxic name.
That's very, very, very offensive.
Part of the toxic rude.
No, aren't you now buddy?
That's a free pass, dude.
He no longer is.
And I couldn't have been more happier with this decision.
She knew what she was doing.
Whoa.
He's like, is he actually making the point that she knew that hiring him
would be a bad decision to do what she was doing when she fired Colin?
Otherwise he would have ruined stone.
He just would have like put the final bullet in it.
Yeah, he would have.
Yeah.
So we can't, we can't talk about something that someone did and be critical
of it, but he can tell you the future.
He can assume that someone was going to ruin Star Wars.
Therefore calling him names.
Okay.
Okay.
It's all comes down to the plane.
It doesn't count.
This might zero doing this video.
Mike zero from the future.
I'm just curious.
I don't know.
I forgot that running joke with that guy.
We have, we have a running joke with Mike zero.
He would have real worst content.
No, no, we don't do jokes on this podcast.
No, no, no, no.
Sorry for my toxicity.
I'm sorry.
Sorry.
I got patriarchy.
Stop bringing your black toxicity.
Wonderful.
To this wonderful Christian podcast.
Star Wars probably would have written in a little clone girl.
Never release a bunch of rat Tars.
Why the fuck not?
I'll take it.
I just, I just find it so funny that he's like, you know, Jurassic wheel full
and kingdom.
That's dumb, but last July masterpiece.
Yeah, that's dumb.
And you can make fun of the people involved with its creation, but oh, not
Star Wars.
You can't fucking do that.
You talked to terrible, horrible man, baby.
I mean, he's, he's acting like Jurassic world two didn't get any hate in
comparison, but it's like, I don't, I have not met one person that actually
unironically likes Jurassic world two.
Yeah.
That movie's pretty bad.
Like it's awful.
It's awful.
And sad too, because like, man, do I love Jurassic park?
That's another one of those series is the cops.
Yeah.
I think we're one was not good, but I, I found enough to enjoy from nostalgia
purposes, but two was awful.
Yeah.
Cause yeah. Cause I, like, I think dress code one kind of sucks, but all in
kingdom was special.
I was blown away.
We need to watch more videos trying to defend that thing.
We yeah, we've been given on, have you got a list of them?
There's like three people want us to check out.
Oh, please tell me none of them are from Shinobi.
No, but one of them I believe isn't one of them like where it's like the, the,
the biblical elements of falling kingdom.
I don't know.
I thought the Bible like kind of contradicts the whole dinosaur thing.
It depends on what crazy people you talk to.
Some people say there's dinosaurs in the Bible.
I'm like, fuck it.
Why not?
Why not?
They're living things.
There's also a God in the Bible.
Why the fuck not?
Fuck out of here.
So it wasn't enough that he made the joke now.
Yeah.
Now he's got it.
Now he's got a double down on it.
Jeez.
It wasn't that funny.
And now you're actually like, thanks.
We, we got it.
We got it.
Jurassic world.
He was bad.
We all agree.
I'm curious.
Why did he zoom into Jurassic will fallen kingdom, but not for Star Wars?
If you know what I mean?
He's gotten rid of the black bars.
Why is he showing a terrible scene from Star Wars movies if he's trying to
defend Star Wars?
No, but he's so what he's doing is he's consistently telling us how I hated
Jurassic world too.
I don't talk about it.
I don't talk shit about it.
Yet.
Here's this asshat Colin Trevorrow that made Jurassic world too, but I don't
continue to talk bad about it.
And then he continues to talk bad about it.
Yeah.
This video I'm making, we're going to keep mocking him over and over.
Exactly.
That's the healthy thing to do.
It's the toxic thing would be to do that.
But more hypocrite.
Um, but yeah, do you know what I mean though?
He's zoomed into fallen kingdom for no reason.
They show a different aspect ratio.
No, it's definitely.
Cause I had to, I made my video on this terrible.
Oh yeah.
You wouldn't know.
I don't know.
Maybe he's trying to crop off the, uh, so he watermarked it like, um,
or it was like this to begin with.
And he got it from like a YouTube video.
Maybe, probably.
That's my guess.
No, zoom in on the face.
I guess now he's off.
That's funny.
When you zoom in on faces, that's funny.
Also for the record, I like that he's saying like, he's going to strike the
final nails.
Like drastic world is making shit tons of money.
I'm pretty sure that not only will he make the third one and it'll make a
shit ton of money, but they'll probably keep going.
Like drastic universe.
Jurassic Mars, Jurassic cosmos.
T-Rex versus aliens.
It'll be great.
What if the raptors like become sentient and then we're living with the
raptors and it's all like mass effect, but with.
It's going to be like, um, that movie that would be Goldberg did.
Oh God.
Theodor Rex.
Yeah.
Jurassic world for the.
It's the Jurassic Park movies of the world movie.
It's all a prequel to the.
Oh my God.
There is intense lore that we had to get out of the way for us.
We just need to make sure that we get whoopi Goldberg back again.
Episode nine, since he did a good job with the force awakens.
If this doesn't show, she's trying to save our childhood franchise.
I don't know what will not sure what happened.
You could start with like not systematically destroying all of the legacy
characters.
I don't know.
I don't feel too good about Lando being like robot sexual now.
I don't think that really saves my childhood.
Do you remember the scene that they cut in the OT guys where he was like
coming on to see three P.O.
Fucking the robot.
Like actually coming on to.
Yeah.
It was a word.
Master Calrissian.
Please get your big black penis off.
It was bad enough with Chewbacca does it.
We don't we don't need to bring Chewbacca into this.
Oh, he's coming.
He's coming.
No, no, don't say that.
Phil Lord and Christopher Miller in terms of their vision for solo that as a
result of their departure gave us Ron Howard's vision or 70% of it.
But at least solo didn't turn out like Justice League.
Um, congratulations.
Solo didn't turn out like one of the worst movies ever.
I just don't know.
Endearing point.
Set that bar.
Hi.
There's so many ways to respond to this.
I mean, like, is that something to be proud of?
Like, okay.
Justice League actually made more money than solo.
Really?
Well, it may be made money.
Yeah.
So I think Justice League made like 600 million, which is terrible for
Justice League.
But my God.
Solo made what?
Like 400 million.
So you're telling me that petition actually worked.
Hey, man.
They needed us.
Okay.
These heroes.
I can imagine them going to that film six times.
This is like all the ticket, you know, people at the front of the movie
theater and like, Oh, back again.
Frank.
Like, yeah.
What number are you on three ways to go?
Frank.
I still remember.
Right.
I still remember when the guy said that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
I still remember when the group in front of me left and I was all alone in
that terrible movie.
Oh, Jesus.
It's worse.
Yeah, you're right.
So it was 400 million for solo and 600 million for Justice League.
So.
So carefully.
He's awesome.
Reshoots.
I love this guy's singing.
Her praise is so hardcore.
Wow.
You really are.
This is kind of a new one for me.
Speaking of solo.
Yeah, it sucked.
I'm using solo.
Oh, here we go.
The boycott that worked.
As I've mentioned before, solo, a Star Wars story has flopped.
Thanks to all the butthurt toxic.
And nothing to do with the film's quality at all.
There's not countless reasons why they never should have made that movie to
begin with Rags.
It's all because of the toxic.
Was it brutal?
What have we learned here?
We have learned that Jurassic World 2 is a disastrous, terrible movie.
And the people involved with it deserve to be fired.
Toxic.
Oh, shit.
Toxic.
Yeah, yeah, he did.
But anything Star Wars related in Kathleen Kennedy.
Wait, was Kathleen Kennedy a producer on?
Jurassic Wheels?
I know Frank Marshall was, because obviously.
But I don't know if she's on that.
But anyway, the point is, I doubt she was because of her role at Lucasfilm.
He probably would have had trouble bringing that one up.
He'd be like,
probably a joke out of it or whatever.
Oh, man.
This guy, he's all over the place.
No, yeah, she didn't.
She wasn't involved in that, unfortunately.
Would have been funny.
Would have been good.
Decided to boycott the movie because they hate Disney Star Wars and what
they've done to the franchise.
These haters weren't willing to give this movie a shot.
It was shit.
I gave Disney money.
I gave this film a chance.
I've seen this movie twice.
I gave Deadpool two of the money to watch this movie.
Just gave the Disney in advance.
Just thinking of which Deadpool two good movie is like, yeah,
I defend solo now.
Go for it, man.
It's your video.
So it was a great film.
Defend.
That solo flopped by releasing the movie in May as opposed to the
You mean like how many other big blockbuster movies?
Hold on.
Did you.
Did he really just say that it flopped because it was released in May
and the set of December.
That that was one of that was one of the excuses for everybody that of
the release date because obviously release dates have always been
strategic for Star Wars movies because you have to release Star Wars movies
on specific dates for them to be successful.
But Infinity War released in May and that was pretty successful.
Deadpool two was successful.
Yeah, but there were no boycotts for Infinity War.
Guys, guys, you're you're you're forgetting you're forgetting Geeks
and Gamers channel with approximately around 40,000 subs at the time of solo
releasing had a massive boycott on my videos.
We had at least 20,000 views.
So clearly we had a massive impact.
Every single one of those people.
People will go into cinema saying I will not be seeing the film because of
Geeks and Gamers and then they give them a link to your channel.
It was widely reported.
It's fact.
It's fact.
I mean, I even think I even think that was the day that CNN decided to be
honest and report about Geeks and Gamers.
I mean, it was an amazing accomplishment for us.
And so I just want to thank all my family, friends and relatives for
supporting the effort that we did take down a multi million dollar film
with my channel that couldn't even pull fucking 30,000 views at the time.
Greatness.
You're a weapon.
I'm here talking to Mahler.
That's why.
This is why it's happening.
Yeah.
We're all world together, man.
We all took down solo.
Did it.
Look at how many other big blood buster.
The brood grows.
And now look at the ones coming out in December.
Sure.
Infinity war came out at the end of April, but it was.
We didn't come out in December.
I love how he has to be like.
Yeah.
I made a billion dollars.
Fine.
The Avengers movie came out.
I know.
Oh, it's a big movie.
That doesn't really disprove my point.
Star Wars isn't big.
So it makes sense.
Why does the Avengers logo start before May?
I think April 20.
I think that's his point.
Late April.
So it doesn't really count.
Except it does.
And solo came out near the end of the month.
So I don't see any reason why most fans didn't go.
You know what?
I'll go with solo.
But Rampage came out around April too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
We don't.
We don't talk about that fucking movie.
And the people who have seen it.
So a lot of them enjoyed it.
And thought it was the best star.
What was his problem with the non white.
It was not white male leading the movie.
Was that his problem?
I think there was an albino gorilla.
So.
You just make the point.
It's the best Star Wars flick in a while.
When the last one came out six months prior.
Which.
Yeah.
That happened to be like one of his favorites.
I guess he said that some people said that.
So.
On April 2.
Yeah.
We don't talk about that fucking movie.
And the people who have seen it.
A whole lot of them.
Most people have forgot.
It was the best Star Wars flick in a while.
And since I'm on the subject of the film itself.
Let me tell you what I thought of it.
Are you really.
It was fine.
I had fun watching.
It means.
It's not good.
It means it wasn't good.
I enjoyed it.
But I'm not going to admit that it's a bad movie.
Yeah.
Cause it was fun.
It's exact like Mahler.
You said earlier.
You had fun with them.
You know.
Aquaman.
But you admit it's bad.
You know, cause it's, you know, but.
But this guy is not the type that's going to say this is objectively bad
movie.
It's a bad movie.
It's a bad movie.
It's a bad movie.
It's a bad movie.
It's a bad movie.
It's a bad movie.
It's a bad movie.
It's a bad movie.
It's a bad movie.
Yeah.
It was objectively bad movie.
He's just going to say, I had a lot of fun.
He can't.
He cannot say he can't admit that this film was bad because of it.
It all comes crashing down.
Yep.
Does anyone remember solo existed before this video reminded us of it?
Oh no.
I forgot the film existed.
Dang it.
But they played it too damn safe.
A lot more.
Too safe.
Why?
I'm sorry.
Did you,
did you forget about the part where Lando is robo sexual?
Where they had an SGJW droid.
Like I don't, I don't think that was a safe choice.
She had a buzzsaw come out of her crotch and then saw open a gate.
Sorry.
They had a super emotional death scene for her that I actually like laughed in the cinema
and I was like, shit, I should shut the fuck up.
Some people in the cinema are taking this seriously.
Oh, I left.
Well, my favorite shit about that was when I reviewed it, people were like,
well, didn't you get that was supposed to be funny.
It's a parody scene.
And I was like, Oh God.
Yeah.
I still don't.
I thought she was a parody character too.
The people think it's parody.
Yeah.
Like I still don't think Mueller and I can quite.
I don't understand that.
I don't get that pair of the parody angle.
I heard people say that.
And obviously I didn't see the movie until I really wasn't going to see the movie.
And then someone sent me a copy of it.
One of our viewers said, I really want your thoughts on it.
So I watched it, but I really hate you.
Well, I was doing a live stream and I had heard most of the stuff on it,
but someone informed me about the L three three seven and how the effect of the
Millennium Falcon, you know, and you should, you saw like,
you saw all of the happiness in my life go away with during that live stream
where they told me, I'm like, wait, what the fuck?
They did that.
Are you in the spaceship?
Yeah.
And everybody on the stream, they're like, we killed Jeremy.
We killed him.
He's dead.
I'm like, I am dead inside right now.
I didn't know this.
You would have thought that a spaceship being an inanimate object that isn't a
character couldn't possibly be ruined, but they found a way to build a spaceship.
How do you do that?
How do you ruin the spaceship?
This space ferrying space Jews to the space Holocaust.
It's it is an act solo is objectively boring.
It's fucking boring.
Like it's so goddamn boring.
Like it doesn't even it doesn't even have enough meat on the bone to anger me.
It's just fucking boring.
You telling me you didn't cheer when Darth Maul pulled out his double lightsaber.
Yeah.
I was I was already dead.
I was such an awkward moment, though, because you could tell that even even Amelia
Clark in that scene was like, you're going to put it away.
OK.
Why do you have it out?
You're not actually here.
It's like it doesn't work, dude.
I don't know what's up with Disney.
Star Wars having people pull lightsabers out that aren't actually there and present in
the sky or Jake Jake from The Last Jedi.
It's the one I'm pressing me.
I'm getting depressed all over again.
Yeah.
I feel sad that that was Sam Whitworth's first Star Wars movie.
Mm hmm.
And Ray Park actually came back for it.
And it's just like, oh, you deserved a better.
And solo also relies heavily on fan service to please the audience.
It wasn't as bad as Jurassic World Fallen Kingdom.
It was a metric metric.
It's not as bad as these awful things.
He's going to talk about the movie.
He said he doesn't constantly bitch about like he said earlier.
He's like, I don't constantly bitch about it.
I hate it.
And now he's done nothing but constantly bitch about Jurassic World Fallen
Kingdom.
Pretty distracting at times.
I had some issues with this movie, so I'll just get the negatives out of the way.
And I'll be going into spoiler territory as well.
So I'll skip to this.
Just turn it off.
Okay.
The warning.
Solo lives because he's in the other ones.
Yeah.
Spoiler Chewbacca and solo live Lando lives.
We're not even halfway through this video, by the way, just talking about
Amelia.
Unfortunately also lives.
So he's about to criticize and spoil solo for seven minutes.
Eight minutes.
Lord.
What is this video?
This is the last Jedi video and he about solo.
I can try and think about this man.
That's the thing.
I didn't know the title is Star Wars.
The Phantom Menace.
I don't think that title is suitable.
He's talked about nothing of the Phantom Menace really.
Except for it.
Except for like being general and call a toxics toxic fanboys.
Let's see if we can.
Yeah.
Someone's suggesting skipping a solo session.
We'll see how it starts.
We might skip it.
In the beginning of the movie.
This is Elder Scrolls.
I did not need to be reminded of that horror game.
Have you heard of the hyah?
Oh, it's the scene where he gets his name, which is 99% of humanity.
Thought this was incredibly stupid.
It's insane because remember when we watched the fifth Pirates of the Caribbean
and we were like, Oh my God, that movie first.
The whole reconning his name.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Why do people feel like we need an explanation for somebody's last name?
We just assume his parents gave it to him and that was a perfectly fine
explanation.
Honestly, it's like, no, we,
we need to make it some staple of your character.
It's like, it's, it's his last name.
Who cares?
Thanks.
Like that's another thing that you couldn't possibly think they could ruin.
And then they were like, let's ruin his last name.
How did you do that?
It's just impressive.
It always is.
Thought in his mind.
Hmm.
Han Solo.
You cannot expect me to believe that Han was given that kick ass name from an
Imperial.
That name is basically a symbol of the empire now.
And what's worse, that given last name will be passed down to his son.
He's part of the toxic fandom.
I'm so confused.
So he would actually maintain that the failure of Solo has nothing to do with
his writing despite criticizing the shit out of his writing now.
It's like, oh.
Who turns to the dark side?
Ironic.
I'm sure Kylo has a better idea as to how that name would have been given to Han.
They could have at least built it up a little more dramatically.
Like, huh, no family, huh?
Let's see what kind of options we have.
Oh, yes.
Here we go.
Han clanless.
Han abandoned.
Han sad boy.
Who's this guy?
We should watch this.
Have you ever seen that one?
You've never seen that one, Mauler?
I don't think so, no.
I don't think so, no.
Oh, dude, you got to watch his Bane video.
It's as good as The Dark Knight Rises.
Take that.
So much.
And then the officer would be like, whoa, nice.
That is way better than anything I came up with.
You will be known as Han Solo now and forever.
God, I should have made this movie.
There's a scene where Beckett, Han, and Chewie, and the rest of the crew
are stealing a monorail car full of coaxium, an explosive substance, for a job.
On the job.
There are trains.
They use trains.
And they've established that, like, pretty much any craft can even go in atmosphere now.
Like, Rogue One said that Star Destroyers can go in atmosphere, so...
Why would they have trains?
I don't know.
Only five to ten minutes of screen time, mind you.
Two characters that kind of grew on me.
Val and Ryo.
Oh, did they die?
Like, immediately.
How did they grow on you?
They were in the movie.
I'm so confused.
I'm so confused.
I feel like it's just because of Jon Favreau's voice that people probably like.
Ryo.
I didn't even know that was his name.
I didn't know either.
It's so weird.
Like, I'm like, I did see this film, right?
I fucking forgot all the shit out of it.
My question is, why so early?
Val had a pretty cool personality.
And Ryo was an okay comedic relief.
And is voiced by Jon Favreau.
There you go.
I wish he was around for the rest of the movie.
Because he was somewhat entertaining.
And the rest of the movie wasn't.
He would have provided entertainment in an otherwise unentertaining movie.
Interesting characters who essentially died just to get replaced by Akira, Lando.
And GJW Droid over here.
Oh, so he thinks the droid is Justice Warrior 2.
Okay.
Oh, that makes sense in the previous decision.
Alright.
Which leads me to my next complaint.
L337.
Who's team is this guy on?
Question mark.
He's team fucking...
I don't even know.
More red letter media is what he is.
Just picture him on a small island shouting at everyone.
We see her protesting at a robotic cage fighting ring.
Where droids are forced to kill each other against their will.
And I'm thinking, a droids rights activist?
That's actually pretty interesting.
No, it's not.
They had to shove her character trait down our throats.
Especially in the scene when she's talking to Lando.
Lando says, you need anything?
And all three goes, equal rights?
Then, in the movie.
Don't do this if you make videos.
Don't do the thing where you get loud.
And your microphone just never do it.
If you think that it's ever a good idea to do that, you're wrong.
There's ways to be, quote unquote, loud without reaching the fucking sound barrier.
There's acting and you can reduce it.
And you can stay away from your microphone a little bit.
There's just so many things you can do.
She died.
You can turn it down in post.
That's another thing you could fucking do.
And later on, they download her brain into the Falcon.
Since she has the best navigational system in the galaxy.
Okay.
And the scene that pissed me off the most is what a lot of people who saw the movie loved the most.
Did anyone love this?
Darth Maul.
He's back.
Again.
Okay, I might end up being in the minority, but...
Sounds like you're really toxic.
Why can't you just like it?
Why are you trying to pick up hard?
How come you're trying to find the flaws in these movies?
He's ignoring the achievements this movie had.
Exactly.
One of the themes.
I feel like it told us the heroic Han Solo story.
And I think that we should appreciate that.
Which is a crime syndicate in this universe.
Why is Darth Maul running a crime syndicate?
You're just looking for problems, dude.
Fucking badass.
Yeah, so cool.
And you're just ignoring how cool it is.
Doesn't he have better things to do?
Well, the new season of Clone Wars is coming up, so they might explain that.
They're gonna have to now.
And I was quite...
Oh my god.
Fucking yell.
Fucking yell.
Jesus Christ.
Alright, we just tried and boss alone.
He was a pretty decent villain.
Even though he doesn't do a lot in this movie.
This scene requires people to watch Clone Wars and Rebels to know that he's alive.
Because a lot of people who haven't seen either show were confused beyond measure when this scene happened.
Wait, didn't he die in Phantom Menace?
If I'm being honest, Maul should have just stayed dead.
He was basically brought back to life only to die again.
Better yet, if Lucas actually gave a shit, Maul should have been kept as the Vader of the prequel trilogy.
Next to Palpatine.
What is this video about?
I don't...
Guys, what's happening?
This is about as inconsistent as the sequel trilogy right now.
He can't even...
Now he's hating on the prequels?
Oh gosh, this guy hates every Star Wars...
Jesus Christ, what a toxic...
Where are we?
How do we get here?
Can we go...
What?
I'm some disposable villains.
And I believe that Maul's death in Phantom Menace was far more disappointing than Snoke's.
Okay.
Because look how awesome he was in this movie.
Aside from one scene, he barely spoke a word and had a threatening presence.
What is happening right now?
Darth Maul is more...
The key is, at least, Darth Maul was awesome.
I'm speechless.
I don't know what to say.
Yeah, Darth Maul's cooler than Snoke.
Okay, what does this have to do with Solo?
What does that have to do with the Phantom Menace and...
The Last Jedi hates it.
You pick the doozy, Mauler.
And you see him owning Qui-Gon and Obi-Wan.
Uh-huh.
And then he gets killed like a bitch.
Maul had every advantage to kill Obi.
Yeah, I guess Obi-Wan was really good.
I've seen this just fanservice.
As he's contacted the Jedi.
What is she wearing?
It's stylish.
No, no, no. What is that?
A plastic bag.
It's like a...
Is it like a...
What a strange outfit.
She can't actually button that up because it would go up to, like, her eyebrows.
Well, if you remember, there's that outfit Leia's wearing in the TLJ.
They cover up her whole fucking face.
Remember the...
Anyone here, like, the...
What Leia's wearing in TLJ where it goes up to, like, her nose?
Yeah.
Oh, great.
Yeah, so apparently that's probably what she's wearing there.
That's this new style. It goes up to your nose.
It's like a specialty winter thing, though.
Hologram, mind you.
He ignites his lightsaber in front of her.
The movie suggests it's too intimidating, but...
He's a hologram.
It's not like he's physically there where this would make...
Does he think you can't do this to the TLJ?
I don't know.
Well, you can, but that makes sense.
Luke wasn't there on create.
I find it weird that he's, like, picking apart this movie while simultaneously maintaining that the picking apart TLJ is to ignore its achievements.
Yeah.
And picking apart this movie when he claimed that the only reason it failed was because of the boycott.
But then he's tearing apart the flaws of the movie.
She's why it's so bad.
Makes sense.
It's most likely to be like, here's a lightsaber because it wouldn't be a Star Wars movie without it, right?
I pretty much don't like this cameo at all, and it was my main complaint of Solo.
Yeah, we got that.
Those are my negatives.
Yeah, those were bad.
Now, let's talk about the good stuff.
The music was great.
Han Solo's theme in this movie was pretty cool and adventurous.
It was pretty cool and adventurous.
Just like Han himself.
John Williams wrote the theme for Han, as well as orchestrating his own track exclusively for the album.
Yeah, but now it's tied to Han Solo the film, and I don't want to listen to it.
But I thought John Powell did a pretty good job with the score as well.
Just play random clips, okay.
That's cool.
It sounds kind of like the last one, but all right.
You could have told me that that track is from Force Awakens, and I'd have been like, yep.
Yeah, I remember that one.
Another thing I enjoyed.
Three years into his Imperial career.
That was interesting, three years to...
No, fuck that.
He was in the Imperial Army for three years, and apparently he was not changed in any way from that.
Nope.
Exactly the same.
Exactly the same.
Nothing gets to him.
Han catches on and threatens to snitch, but is sold out by Beckett.
Troops throw him into a pit to feed him to the beast, who turns out to be Chewbacca.
What do you mean, of course?
Of course, he knows how to speak Wookiee.
How to speak Wookiee and convinces him to help escape.
That was an interesting introduction to the...
Can you speak Wookiee?
Then you can.
Someone's put it all caps.
Wolf is muted.
It's like, that's his choice.
I can't mute.
I would unmute him if I could, guys.
It's up to him.
Wolf is clearly gone for a poo-poo, that's what it is.
Friendship, and it didn't feel forced.
And Chewbacca was actually a main character in this movie, as opposed to being a...
Why is everyone posting Ws?
Does everyone think I can actually save Wolf?
I can't do anything, guys.
Is Wolf fapping?
There's nothing I could do.
He's like, yeah, L3.
Fucking yeah.
Fucking droid rides.
Wolf will be happy to know they care extremely about the fact that he's killed the mute symbol.
No, that's just part of his avatar.
They're just desperate to focus on anything but this guy's weird, midi review of Solo.
It's doing a Solo film now, guys.
The seat ticket.
We're doing it, we're doing it, we're doing it.
Nobody's in the seat, and I ain't taking friends.
Lando Calrissian was pretty much the shell-stealer in this movie.
No, no, no, we're gonna skip ahead.
Memory, for fuck's sake.
But this is just juvenile and retarded.
Second off...
Whoa!
It's just the hard word again!
Don't say that, dude.
You can't say that!
Get down, Miss Obama!
I don't know if you guys heard that meme, but it's fantastic.
I seem to get down, Miss Obama.
Yeah, this is a strange video, honestly.
It really is.
Like, you could really...
Go ahead.
He needs a little structure.
Get down, Miss Obama.
Have you seen that one?
No, what is that?
Give me a link to that.
You'll laugh your ass off.
Anyway, go ahead.
You really think you can remake The Last Jedi and put in the same amount of time and effort into the story, effects, production design, and everything else?
Honestly, I really...
Do you think that Rian Johnson is the only person who could?
Really?
He does.
I'm so sorry that he didn't think that.
You want to see you try.
Third off, you want to throw away Carrie Fisher's last performance as Leia.
Are you seriously all that...
Not relevant.
What an appeal to...
What even is that?
What is that?
Emotion.
Also, stop yelling.
If this guy was a lawyer, he would be the worst.
You want to use it?
Yeah, he might have murdered that family and burned their house down.
But would you want to devalue his previous 30 years of life by making him spend the rest of it in prison?
That sounds like Bill Cosby's lawyer, sort of.
But he made the funny jokes about the Jell-O button.
Yeah.
He doesn't deserve to go to jail.
That heartless.
You want this well-executed and emotional scene.
Oh, I just want actually worse.
You want this singular scene that people actually enjoyed to be gone.
I'd exchange it for several good ones.
Oh, it's like one of the two good ones in the film.
Oh, some people are wondering how much I skipped.
I just skipped two...
I think he said 27 minutes was when he stopped talking about Solo and I was getting...
I think it was like three minutes is all you skipped.
Yeah, it was killing me listening to him review Solo.
Oh.
I like to think that he's making this argument because he's like,
come on, guys, even people who hate this movie must like this.
These are the people you like, right?
They're hanging out with each other.
You like that, right?
Right?
These are the ones you like?
Uh-huh.
Trying, but he's failing.
See, we put a black character in the movie.
You like black people, right?
Mm-hmm.
Captain Marvel's a woman.
We've started this pointless campaign.
Fuck you.
I think you did.
This is the whole campaign of why you hate this movie.
To those who supported it, fuck you too.
Fourth off, this remake will never happen because J.J. Abrams already wrote the story for him.
All that was because Carrie Fisher's dead.
Um, I guess that's the subject he's on right now is whether or not they would remake Episode 8.
Go for it.
I don't...
Yeah, I agree with him.
I don't think it'll ever happen, but that's not...
No.
I don't have the same reasoning as him.
I think it's more than possible they're just never gonna do it.
No.
And the movie is being filmed as we speak.
A remake would...
Oh!
Now continuity matters.
Okay.
Mm-hmm.
Now he censors himself too.
He's inconsistent.
Yeah, that is strange.
We've seen that before though, where people were sometimes...
Oh, yeah.
It was tonaled.
It was tonaled.
Yeah, it was tonaled.
Yeah, he censored himself sometimes, but other times he's just like, yeah, fuck it.
I don't think this guy was hard enough to make that into a joke, but...
And Disney wouldn't just destroy Rian Johnson's work like that.
All that hard work put into the movie.
I guess the EU doesn't count as hard work.
It was...
Nope.
Not at all.
Come on, dude.
Wouldn't be put to waste just to replace it.
And fifth off, if you're willing to make a campaign to raise $200 million to remake The
East.
Why not do the exact same thing to help make an old Republic movie?
Or the damn Kenobi movie?
No, because we think you'll fuck that up.
That's the point.
That's the whole point.
We think you will fuck everything up.
We want to do it ourselves.
Also, the old Republic movie, isn't the old...
Is the old Republic still canon?
Yeah, what is?
What isn't canon these days?
No, I don't think so.
I don't think so.
But, I mean, the rumor is, is Benioff and Weiss are making old Republic movies.
That's gonna be their movies.
So it will become Disney canon pretty soon.
Please don't fuck it up.
You all won't shut up about it.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Didn't think about that one, did you?
Oh, why not raise money to create a surefire cure for disease?
You selfish fuck.
See, he is yelling and then he cut himself off at the very end.
Because that's funny.
That's really funny when you do that.
That's really funny when you do that.
I saw that in a video that someone else did and I thought it was kind of funny.
So now if I do it every two fucking minutes, it'll be hilarious.
When you can't make normal jokes, just shout and then cut yourself off.
It's not even a joke.
There's not even like a setup or a payoff.
It doesn't harken to anything.
It doesn't call back to...
Oh, harken.
It doesn't pay...
Call back to anything.
It doesn't...
It's...
It's not even...
What's the joke?
I love how this petition exists, by the way.
This video is a joke.
He's just upset.
It's actually a petition made for George Lucas to take the helm of directing a Star Wars movie once again.
I'll sign it.
Sure.
Fuck.
I'll do it.
Sign it.
Okay.
No.
Take it.
I'll take it, man.
He's going to have a section.
This is going to be about the prequels, isn't it?
Oh, yeah.
Here we go.
He's testing my patience.
Special effects are just a tool.
Means of telling a story.
Why would you put this in this video?
This hurts your point.
A special effect without a story is a pretty boring thing.
Honestly, if you guys were referring to this guy, I'd definitely let him direct the Star Wars movie again.
I'll take current Lucas.
Thank you, Lucas.
Do you really want this guy to come back to directing Star Wars movies?
Yeah.
There's no way he would have done worse than Ryan Johnson.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, and a fucking heartbeat.
Absolutely.
He would have the heart due to Luke, what Ryan did.
I think George would be like, no, I can't do that.
My perfect scenario is that would have been his story directed by someone like JJ Abrams without.
So JJ would have no story input, but he would be directing George Lucas's story that way.
George has no directorial input with the actors and the lines and the dialogue and how it's delivered.
That would have been my perfect scenario.
That's your perfect scenario?
Yeah, George Lucas's story directed by someone like JJ who is good with actors.
You can question JJ's creative choices, but he has good.
He's good with directing actors.
You have some other director.
I'm trying to think of a modern equivalent, so I don't sound like an asshole, but JJ Abrams.
You got to think, JJ has no creativity involved because the story has been done by George Lucas.
And that was the problem with the prequels was the story wasn't the problem.
The execution of the story was the problem, and George is not a great director.
I think we all agree with that.
I agree he's not great.
Well, he's not a horrible director.
He directed the first Star Wars movie, which is my favorite one.
But he also directed The Phantom Menace in Attack of the Clone.
Well, the interesting thing is I don't think that I have a problem.
As long as Rian Johnson is not allowed to touch the script, I don't mind his direction.
I think he had some decent visuals in TLJ as well as, well, I don't know how much it's worth the fact that he gets along with everybody.
Except the fans.
I meant cast and crew, not the fans at all.
The perfect combo is pretty tough to call, right?
You have to really think through all the people.
Some people are saying  some people are saying Nolan. Nolan would never walk into someone else's story and direct their story.
That's not how Nolan operates. He would have to have all creative control.
But I mean you can talk about something like Denny Villeneuve.
Oh, Denny Villeneuve?
I mean he did Arrival and a few other really well-received movies.
What do you think about Arrival? Always mean it.
We don't know where Wolf's done with the video. I can't take it anymore.
Wolf died.
I don't blame him.
He's taking that.
Yes.
A big poop. He's taking a big poop.
Must be stuck in Sideways or something.
The Russo brothers. That could be interesting just to see what they do.
It could be.
I mean, they handle a lot of the Marvel characters better than when they appear in their own films.
One who made unnecessary edits to the original trilogy.
The guy who made the painfully mediocre yet enjoyable prequel trilogy.
The trilogy that you backlash him for, thus causing him to sell the rice 
Don't yell. Don't yell.
Don't yell.
Calm down, Sue.
Please don't do it. Don't do it.
Don't yell.
Is he using backlash properly? You backlash him?
I don't like whiplash.
This guy reminds me of when PewDiePie does the nice guy Reddit threads,
where the nice guy is always talking about how much he respects the girl
and makes these playful jokes and suddenly he finds out the girl has a boyfriend
and all of a sudden he starts screaming at her.
Well, you don't have to be so mean about it.
Yeah, you are.
Yeah, so this is how he reminds me.
He just starts building up to it and he screams.
He's probably not even talking to the right people here.
A lot of people who backlash him over, if that's even the phrasing,
him over the prequels, a lot of those people love the sequels.
A lot of people who love the prequels hate the sequels.
A lot of people who love the OT hate the prequels and the sequels.
Look, there's loads of different, what you could call, factions. I don't know.
Look at it.
Mr. Disney?
The guy who wrote the story for this?
What the fuck is that?
I don't know.
What is this?
I've never heard of this.
What is it?
Anime?
What is this movie?
What is this movie?
Is this like a Barbie thing or?
Look.
He wrote the story for it? That's okay.
I respect for what?
This video is so weird, dude.
I'm saying it's epic.
What is this?
I made a movie.
I never saw it.
Range Magic is the name of the movie, I guess.
No, they're saying Epic is the name of it.
It's called Epic?
Hold up.
Let me do that.
Well, let's see.
Anna says it's Dark Magic.
Epic Movie.
Well, there's a movie called Epic Movie.
Epic Movie.
Called Epic.
No, there's a movie called Epic.
No, there's Epic Movie.
No, he's not talking about that.
Oh, I found it.
It's a 2013 film.
Epic 2013.
It's hard to Google, which is a problem.
Yeah, it's a 2013 movie.
65 on the Tomato Meter.
65% liked it.
So it was okay, I guess.
Okay, easy way to do it.
He said George Lucas wrote whatever this crazy movie was, right?
That's what he's saying.
A screenplay by...
We did the story.
Did we just check George Lucas's IMDb for a writer?
It was directed by Chris Wedge.
Okay, Epic doesn't come up.
What about...
Uh, George Lucas.
Oh, Strange Magic.
Yeah, he wrote the story for Strange Magic.
George doesn't...
In 2015?
Wait, was this Strange Magic?
What film is this that he's showing?
Strange Magic is the one he was showing.
Okay.
I'll put it in chat and in Discord.
This is apparently the movie.
Strange Magic?
Wait, is this the song from Electric Light Orchestra?
Because that's a really good song.
I'm getting messages from Anna now.
She's telling me that George made that for his daughters.
Oh, that makes some sense then.
Yeah, so they changed...
But they changed everything about it, I guess.
17% for critics and 52% of audiences liked it.
So apparently not very good.
It's not epic.
It is Strange Magic.
Strange Magic, yeah.
I've never heard of that, but okay.
Box Office, $10 million.
Uh-oh.
He wrote it about fairies and it's about his daughters.
Well...
I've never heard of this.
Never heard of this.
The tagline is, everyone deserves to be loved.
That was like something Rose Tika would say.
Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah, so he wrote that, which means he's not allowed to write anything from now on.
Just so you guys know.
All right.
Kathleen Kennedy, though.
She helped make Avatar the Last Airbender, so...
That's okay, though, because...
You have to scream when you say it for it to make sense.
Avatar!
The Last Airbender!
There you go.
She's a wahmen, so it's okay.
Well, that kind of took us off on a path.
We were going down.
We're trying to Google the film that he was showing.
Why?
Oh, why would you do that?
Why?
Just keep your eye on the fucking volume control, guys, and you'll be fine, but...
Just...
If you look away, it actually gets quieter.
If you close your eyes and look away and think of the queen or something, I don't know.
Ah, stop.
My God.
Yeah, I'm pulling my volume right down.
No.
Ah!
Stop!
Why?
Is that Keemstar?
Yeah, it was.
That was...
But thank God I'll put the volume back up now.
Really worth it for the joke guy who made this video.
Yeah, that was hilarious.
That definitely wasn't obnoxious to the whole audience.
That was very funny, and I can't wait for more.
...and changed the way films are made forever.
And so did the following two films.
But what he's done to the originals years later...
What's that huge...
What the fuck does this have to do with the fucking video?
It ruined the...
Did you say the prequels did damage to the OTs?
Like, um...
Did you see the sequel films?
Like, for the...
From 1997, pal.
Fuck you don't taste very good.
Really changed the fucking movie.
Yeah, I was gonna say, like, this is...
It was really important that he proved those points.
Yeah, there's a trial argument.
What are we talking about now?
We're talking about a rival.
George Lucas should not be brought back.
Cozy made a movie we thought was epic, but turned out to be Strange Magic.
But it looked like a deleted scene from Shrek.
We didn't know what was going on.
So that's why Strange Magic's in the chat.
Yeah, sorry, I went to go get pizza.
Wow.
Bring us any?
It's always pizza with you.
Look, healthier.
I gotta listen to this retard for the rest of the night.
I'm gonna do it, Will.
The only problem is, these fucking people didn't cut...
They only cut the pizza part, but they didn't cut the crust.
Well, you know what?
That's not gonna be...
That's not a fucking issue.
That's not an issue if you make your own.
Yeah, Wolf.
That would take significantly longer, though.
You're gonna win your real name.
Now I'm hungry.
Thanks, Wolf.
Yeah.
You're welcome.
Now I'm hungry, too.
I'm hungry, too.
I got...
I gotta get some fucking chips.
They didn't even cut all the chips during triangles.
What the fuck?
Making sure old carbon copies of the original films never get remastered.
All because he wanted to do what he couldn't do back in the 70s and 80s.
It's a complete disrespect to all the hard work that was put in.
It's a complete disrespect.
Hey, remember that time that George Lucas made a horrible, shameless rip-off of The Lord of the Rings?
I remember that time.
What, strange magic?
You tried to say...
No, it was called, um...
Fuck, what was that called?
Aragon?
No.
Well, that's a rip-off of Pails.
Willow?
Willow, yeah.
That was it.
It was a total rip-off of The Lord of the Rings.
It's because he...
George Lucas, fun fact, tried to get the rights to make A Lord of the Rings trilogy,
but he couldn't get them, so he made Willow out of Spike.
Yeah, he was supposed to...
He pulled Willow out of Spike.
Yeah, he made Willow because he was too untalented to actually make The Lord of the Rings.
Willow George Lucas.
Yeah.
Can you imagine how shit The Lord of the Rings films would have been if George Lucas made them?
How dare you.
Imagine Ryan Johnson made them.
Hey, no, it's got a midget in it.
Oh, God, that would have been even worse.
To see the original version...
The politically correct term is a little...
He's got Warwick Davis in it.
We've had a lot of toxicity on this stream because of the video we're watching,
because of all the R words being dropped, so we have to clean it up around here, guys.
It had Val Kilmer.
God damn.
It had Val Kilmer and Warwick Davis in it, man.
Have you never seen it in your hair, Lewis?
No.
Oh.
It was kind of popular in the late 80s, early 90s.
I had a cereal bowl of it.
Dude, I once saw this fucking video from this dumb piece of shit on YouTube who was like,
oh, yeah, The Lord of the Rings is a ripoff of Willow.
And it's like, no, The Lord of the Rings is based off of a book that came out like 30 years before Willow.
You dumb cunt.
How the fuck did someone that...
Did someone really make a video like that?
No, no, I'm not even fucking kidding.
Like, I actually saw a video where someone called Willow, like, no, called The Lord of the Rings,
a ripoff of Willow, when Willow literally ripped off The Lord of the Rings.
Eat your pizza.
I am.
Of all three films.
Now, I really want to talk about the young ghost Anakin bit, because people actually accept the change in Return of the Jedi.
Most people are pretty pissed about it, actually.
Yeah, we actually don't like it at all.
What is happening?
Yeah, okay, fine.
I've seen literally nobody make that decision.
This guy has done pretty much 95% of this video has done nothing but justify everything we've stayed.
Yeah, we've stayed.
It's like awkward for us.
My God.
Thank you.
Literally, the only good change that George Lucas did to the originals was the ending song in Return of the Jedi.
Oh, it is so much of a good one.
It's a good one.
I know, right?
That's the one where it's like, that's actually a good decision, George.
I don't know what the fuck happened to you with all the other decisions.
But yes, we stand on that one.
Yeah, I love this.
I love it.
It's such a good song.
This whole thing is in favor of saying that he should not be the one that remakes Star Wars if it was rebated.
That's what this whole portion is for, right?
Oh, my God.
No, no, don't let George Lucas make anything anymore.
I'll take it over.
Yeah, I'll take it over.
Absolutely.
Yeah, I'll take shit over dog shit.
Sure.
Wait, wait, wait.
This is a strange comparison.
What are you trying to say?
I'm trying to say that George Lucas isn't really a good movie maker unless somebody else is there to keep him in check.
You missed a part where I said that I would have liked to have someone like JJ that can direct actors to have George's sequel trilogy outline.
JJ directs it, has no creative input.
George has no directorial input.
That's how I would have.
Well, yeah, I mean, look, George has some good ideas now and again.
It's mostly that he's got some insane ideas like, you know, you know, like Han Solo was supposed to be some weird green alien original.
Yeah, that's a horrible idea.
I could have been incredible.
No, I mean, if you really look at like a lot of George's movies like he made that I think it was called the Red Tails or something.
Yeah, that movie was bad.
And then there was Strange Magic.
Then there's the prequels like he's just not very good.
But the original trilogy exists and we're like, well, he's kind of he's good.
Like, not really.
The people who kept him in line on the original trilogy made him appear good.
Gary Kurtz, man, and a lack of technology in many ways because they couldn't do some of the more S9.
Once the fucking George couldn't do the stupid shit.
So that's a. Oh, man.
Once he's going to be 10 feet tall and he's going to glow green as I get it.
They couldn't do the Wampa because of the special effects and not knowing what it looked like.
Kind of worked out better.
Yeah, I mean, that's like in fairness to the Wampa.
That's not in fairness to the Wampa because we're very concerned about the Wampus.
Wampus writes, dude, his feelings.
Hey, how come the Wampa didn't show up in the new trilogy?
I want to know what happened to the Wampa over these 30 years being disabled and all.
We don't know for sure.
They're not the limery grows.
So I feel like they've had a chance.
Well, yeah, I mean, he had it on ice.
So maybe if he got it to like a doctor or something, they could have reattached it.
I mean, it was already cauterized.
That's true.
These are the things people don't realize, like the really important elements of the original trilogy that George could have fixed, but he chose not to.
He chose not to tell us what happened to that Wampa.
Hashtag Wampa writes an altered version.
The version before Lucas added that God awful.
Yeah, no one likes that either.
OK, that's fucking terrible.
It's horrible because that scene was perfect and he fucked with it.
I think this guy knows there are multiple cuts of these special editions, too.
I feel like he would have found that out from someone else.
You know what's sad is like in recent.
You can't get the good song at the end of Jedi with.
Got to know where they're.
Yeah, it's not true.
Damn it.
He's he's brought balance.
When did the when did the when did the new song come in?
Ninety seven.
You could if you watch the ninety seven special edition, you can get the celebration song and a lack of no lack.
I don't know.
I don't know.
I thought those both came in at the same time.
Awesome.
I can go search eBay and spend six hundred dollars on that edition.
You want if there's a website where you can download all the cuts of Star Wars.
It's called the original trilogy dot com.
So yeah, but I really like to have the physical thing.
OK, well, you got to get it on video paper laser.
You've been it once downloaded.
You're right.
It's not on DVD, is it?
As a gamer, do you have that same mentality with video games?
I hate physical gaming.
I mean, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Digital gaming.
I prefer.
Well, I used to.
But then I got into steam.
For me, I really want to have the physical CD for my music and physical Blu-ray for my movies.
But I don't feel quite the same way with video games anymore.
I used to.
But ever since I started getting into PC gaming,
I just haven't cared as much.
Yeah, that's the sheer amount of space they would take up.
Like for me, having the physical edition of something is like special.
But but if I do buy a good game that I love, then I want a special edition.
But most games is like it's always there for me.
Like, yeah, I got I got a physical edition of Ori and the Blind Forest.
And I literally own like five copies of that game.
It's great.
And if I if I buy something on console, I will get the edition.
But if it's on PC, I don't really care that much.
I don't know why these games of mine.
I'm more of a.
Yeah, I'm a console gamer.
So I just and I don't I don't use steam.
So that's why I guess because I definitely like my my physical copies.
So but I hear you.
Yeah, I had to get a very convenient copy of Spyro just for here.
Let me go to you.
Let me go to my steam library and see how many games I have.
I don't even know. It's so many.
How do you find out?
Is there a place that counts them all?
Not know that content or.
Yeah, like if I went through my library of games right now,
if I had a physical copy of them all, I think that's a lot of space.
Jeez. Yeah.
I am a I am a console peasant and I am proud of it.
I am proud of it.
You're talking to someone that literally has three hundred seventy seven books
behind me and then racks and racks of movies and CDs all across my room.
You're new though.
Yeah, but I have people over.
Yeah. Yeah.
I can't argue that.
I don't have friends. I'm sorry.
Nice little one of the rings collection.
I bet you read those books.
I do read those books.
I bet you know how to read.
I'm so excited.
I got the fucking complete Sherlock Holmes edition books today.
Can't wait to read those.
I like the one where he does cocaine.
Does he actually cooking problem?
Anakin Skywalker redeemed himself by throwing Sidious down that chasm,
saving his son and the entire galaxy as a result and became a Jedi again.
Hence return of the Jedi.
And at the end of the movie, we see Anakin as a force ghost.
And he looks the same age he did when he died and redeem himself.
No, but apparently in the old fucking notice, young Anakin.
What does this have to do with anything? I just, yes.
This was not a good change.
Oh, did you skip over the solo part?
We kind of did.
That's cool.
That is kind of funny.
That would be like, Oh, sorry.
Have we met?
And he's like, I'm your dad.
Like you're younger than me.
No, we're in it.
And he was a Jedi.
You've seen the how it should have ended, right?
How it should have ended.
I have not seen that.
Oh, you need to watch that.
Oh, yes.
Yes.
I'll send you a link to it.
And he never got redeemed.
What the fuck?
This makes no sense.
Why are you trying to find all the flaws and the problems in this film?
He's trying to prove George Lucas should be kept away from Star Wars.
That's what this is all about.
Oh, okay.
Okay.
To insult to what they're trying to do for Anakin's characters.
We're trying to prove that canceling characters should be kept away from Star Wars.
And insult to the original actor.
And to the title of the movie, in fact.
This change really ruins the title.
It's called Return of the Jedi for a reason.
The only reason why this change happened was to keep in continuity with Revenge of the Sith.
Because remember, he killed younglings.
And this change only happened because Lucas wanted to make episode three the darkest one in the whole trilogy.
And it ended up being too dark when you had Vader killing me.
It was dark.
I'm pro child murder.
This video, this fucking movie was like a love letter to me.
I was just sitting there like, I really like this heroic moment where he defends the clones from the evil Jedi younglings.
Mahler, didn't you tell us about like the kid that's right in the front here?
Like he went on some Reddit thread and was like, hi, I'm the kid from.
Yeah.
And he said that his friends would always say, like, go up to be like, there's too many of them.
I mean, for hey, for the short period of time he had in the film, he did it okay the way he did it.
Yeah.
Children.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Younglings.
So, yeah, I thought that we all think that I should probably know my opinions on the prequels themselves.
Jesus Christ.
The Phantom Menace.
Not the worst of the three.
I'm sorry.
Is this about the Phantom Menace?
Can we recap?
It started out with like, don't be a dick.
Like or dislike a thing.
Don't harass people.
Leave Kelly Marie Tran and Ryan Johnson alone.
Just because you don't like a movie, all that bad.
Because it just melds into a whole bunch of things into a solo review.
That about sums up this movie or this film or this video production.
I vaguely followed it for a decent chunk of time.
And then it just became.
And then it went off to Never Never Land.
And then it's just we're going here.
We're going there.
Second start of the right and straight onto morning.
And then bam, we're talking about a review for the prequels.
I just love that he's like, I should probably review the prequels.
And we're like, no.
Now that I've got you.
My thoughts on the Star Wars.
Phantom Menace.
Not the worst of the three, honestly.
Really?
I guess it's the worst.
Yeah, that's fair.
For some reason, I thought he was going to say Revenge of the Sith.
I was just like.
It's a pretty boring prequel.
I don't know.
I feel like episode one is the worst.
For me, it's close between one and two.
I really don't think about it.
Hayden's acting is what takes two down to the worst level for me.
It's so bad.
I mean, it's so bad.
Oh, my God.
I love that part.
I love that part in the second one where Hayden's like, oh, yeah, it's
perfectly fine if Nazis like do everything.
He's like, people should agree.
And if they don't, they will be forced to.
You're like, what?
Yeah.
Yeah.
And then Padme looks at him like, and he's just like, just kidding.
It's like George.
There's not much subtlety.
It isn't supposed to be this boring.
Even the crawl was boring.
Turmoil has engulfed the Galatia Republic.
The text immediately.
That joke, buddy.
Star system is in dispute.
Oh, my God.
He's like, he's my God.
Mahler.
Mahler.
They all went and finished Spider Adams.
Jesus.
Hey, I'm going to go let my dogs out.
I'll be right back.
All right.
And now we know who led to that.
Oh, God.
Well, I'm into that song.
Where are they now?
Alive, I hope.
Alive.
Oh, well.
All right.
Give me.
Thanks.
We wait for Gary to get back before we show this.
Yes, of course.
He's big.
He's stuck with us this long.
Yeah.
He deserves the bail in memes.
Be a win.
Optia memories.
Oh, top terror memory.
Be a win.
And just kind of blessed.
Be a win.
But we'll chat.
Hashtag.
Blessed.
Be a win.
Blessed.
I want to show it already.
Oh, well, you know what?
I'll show the other ones first.
Well, there's other things.
This one.
You told me to take care of him.
Not fucking take care of him.
A classic wolf will appreciate this one.
Oh, boy.
And then, Jesus, I know this.
You guys see the Wild Wild West?
Or I guess it's called Wild Wild West.
Yeah.
Oh, man.
Wow.
Oh, boy.
Jesus Christ.
Man, I forget about that movie all the time.
And then people remind me of it.
I'm like, oh, yeah, that happened, didn't it?
I saw it in theaters as a kid.
I remember liking it when I was super young,
because it was dumb as fuck.
Remember that machine that they wear with neck brace
and it fires a disc that tries to chop their heads off?
Yeah, they get two out of the realm of whatever,
the boundary.
That was just a movie.
Yeah.
I'm tempted to be like, maybe I should never see that again.
Well, we're ready when you are.
Oh, right.
Okay.
Yeah.
I mean, we'll make sure Jeremy sees it once he comes back.
But here is the masterpiece.
Oh, my God.
I have seen it.
What did I miss?
I just got some new.
I just see right now.
Oh, my God.
Hate mongers of the toxic.
So the narrative here.
Spider.
He saw the future through his crystal ball.
He saw the rise of the hate mongers.
It makes sense.
Thou has the right to enjoy the last Jedi.
I love the fucking Shakespearean.
That's how everyone talked back then, right?
Yep.
Pure law.
Bless it.
I love you.
Thank you.
It was beautiful.
Um,
do we get into the prequel reviews?
Did we get through the prequel reviews yet?
We waited for you.
You got.
Yeah.
Experience this without you.
Damn it.
Damn it.
I was hoping to get through it.
Playing like an audio commentary of him and his friends.
Is that what's happening?
The taxation of trade routes.
I'm like, well, no.
And the CGI was just as insufferable as Jar Jar Binks.
Didn't really hate big Lloyd as Anakin.
Besides, there are worse child actors out there.
Wait, is that from equilibrium?
No.
That's not a time.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
Oh, no.
No.
No, not that one.
Brie Larson has already determined that none of us
are allowed to talk about a wrinkle in time.
Oh, shit.
But I want to sing that movie's praises.
My favorite part was when.
Was when that one chick turned into a giant flying celery
monster and flew them over the mountains where.
And the other chick with the weird dress could talk to them about.
Please, Oprah, save them all.
Also, Michael Pena was in that movie and I feel really sad.
Michael Pena, you're better than this.
Stop it.
A movie wasn't meant for you, Wolf.
You racist.
Michael Pena, someone save him.
Yeah.
Weird that he just shat on a child actor.
And he's like.
Wow.
Seems really hateful of you, buddy.
Yeah.
Very toxic.
At the end of the movie.
But still.
Attack of the cares.
It was complete ass.
The only interesting part of this movie was Obi-Wan's side quest.
But the love story takes up most of this movie and it was complete.
Her hair looks like a fucking roly poly.
It is beautiful.
How dare you.
Holy shit.
They feed each other bland and terrible dialogue.
I love the water.
I don't like sand.
It looks like a shell.
It's we're meant for each other.
I love water.
You don't like sand.
We're meant for each other.
Oh, it's beautiful.
How do you feel about fire average?
Me too.
That's that's how they fell in love.
Feelings.
Are we reviewing these movies?
Chemistry is nowhere near as strong as Han and Leia in Empire.
Everyone agrees.
Dear God.
Literally, literally everybody agrees.
Oh, no.
Oh, he's going to take something, dude.
That's the look of a serial killer, bro.
I'm coming for that booty.
Haha.
Did he make Anakin such a creep?
Even the lines he says are creepy.
She covered the cameras.
I want to come on her face when she sleeps.
Everyone.
Oh shit, you're here.
I'm going to be addressing.
It's very strange that you address me.
You know, you go to tangents as if I'm not here.
Just being around her again.
Have you spoken to the crows?
I don't know.
Yes.
The dialogue in the prequel suck.
Anakin.
This is what I wear to blend into crowds.
Anakin.
Someone's doing points that nobody's making.
Someone said she gave Anakin a salad for.
Don't get it.
The salad.
The dude who comes by the waitress with a knife because she gave him a salad.
Oh fuck.
He's going to kill it.
How Lucas thought this was a good love story.
And the opening crawl was still boring.
I did it again.
Thanks for the ear rape.
I'm going to throw away my pizza box now.
Okay.
You ate it.
You ate an entire pizza.
It was a small four pieces in there.
Still jealous.
Wait, you paid to have them deliver a single small pizza?
The delivery cost.
Hold on.
I didn't deliver.
He said there was four pizzas in there.
You drove?
Yes.
You could have just made something and then put the thing on speakers.
I wanted fucking pizza.
And a Dr. Pepper.
Oh, speaking of which, no joke.
I went to a corner store to get a Dr. Pepper.
How much weight did you gain there?
A dollar 49.
That's the currency.
What?
That's happening.
Anyway.
You know, that fucking that YouTube story that's come out recently.
Oh, your kids.
What?
The mom that like beat her kids very recently.
Oh yeah.
Just something or other.
Oh my hero.
Hey, sure about that.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That was on like the news on the TV there.
Clark lady was looking at it like she wanted to kill herself.
Well, that's great.
Well,
it's your opinion.
The former queen of that move is returning to the Galactic Senate to
vote on the critical issue of creating an arm.
Oh my fucking God.
Oh man, dude.
Revenge of the Sith.
It was okay.
I kind of have a soft spot for this one.
It definitely improved on a lot of things.
The CG, the acting, the pace.
Time, buddy.
And the crawl was finally not boring.
Let's see.
All right.
Okay.
Describes action.
Christ.
I'm skipping over his retarded commentary with his friends.
No question, but kind of ironic considering what we're doing.
It's not a good.
Definitely has this famous skip this bullshit.
I'm not going to put down the fans of the prequels.
Okay.
His whole argument is we shouldn't let George Lucas near Star Wars because
of the prequels,
but I'm not going to put the fads of the prequels down.
Okay.
All right.
These movies.
That's cool.
These movies aren't the worst I've ever seen honestly,
but they're pretty bad.
There are things about these movies that I enjoy the fights,
the music,
fucking awesome music.
Anything in this is like reviews sound like that from like 10 years ago.
Yeah.
I just don't know what is that a review from 10 years ago or Chris
Beckman review from yesterday.
Oh, I gave up on that fucking guy.
I gave up on fucking that guy.
There's not too far.
I'm about to.
I'm about to give up on this video because I don't know what this guy's
trying to say mentally.
I'm just waiting to hear his closing.
This is a terrible thing.
I featured in his, in his ending.
These are the toxic YouTubers.
How would you guys have named this video with what we've seen in it so far?
I have something to get off my chest.
Part one.
Star Wars dash stuff.
Things and stuff.
Star Wars mission.
The rambling, the rambling force.
The meme quality.
The meme quality.
Okay. I'll give you that.
That's.
He said it.
He finally said it.
Really a compilation of them celebrating.
Why is this relevant to return to directing again?
He's made it clear that he doesn't want to.
You could just said that you didn't have to have everything.
You guys do not deserve in order to understand George Lucas and his
motivations.
You need to hear my review of the prequels.
Here we go.
At least it was less painful than the solo park.
That was seven minutes or more.
Oh, fucking hell.
That was.
Oh my God.
You guys see the, the.
I think it might've been a YTP of this interview where George Lucas is
like, uh, talking to this dude and he's like, you've won Oscars, right?
And George.
No, no.
And then there's sad music that plays.
He's like, I was a good dad.
It's like, Oh no.
Oh, be honest.
George Lucas is out of his element.
He's not the same George Lucas he was before he made the prequels.
Wait, his hair is franchise.
Yeah, man.
Better off in the hands of people who put pack in an effort into making these
new movies and people who know what they're doing.
Allegedly.
I was originally going to save the topic about George Lucas for last.
Oh, you should.
Oh, what's happening now?
Hashtag Clone Wars saved.
Quite recently, it was announced that the 12 new episodes of the Clone
Wars, what does this have to do with years after its cancellation?
Again, Star Wars dash stuff.
Pretty exciting.
It's not to be fair.
I have never seen the show in its entirety.
You are an incredible narrator.
Oh, I've never seen it today.
We're talking about Clone Wars.
It's the same day.
I've seen this, but I'm glad this is happening.
I think it's very important all of you know how I feel about the Clone Wars series.
Of course, pilot movie was complete ass.
Plus, I've never really followed television shows like that when I was a kid.
So when the show aired on Cartoon Network, I was quite unsure on whether or not I should watch or marathon it.
I stumbled upon clips from various episodes on YouTube, and it looks pretty interesting.
Seems like the show got better.
Oh, okay.
That's basically a review right there.
I'm blown away.
This is such a hilarious video.
Progressed.
A lot of heavy and dark stuff.
Every time I kill someone, I put a marker on my face.
Heads getting decapitated.
Ahsoka leaving the Jedi Order, which was pretty sad.
Really wanted to get into it and fully watched the show, but I thought...
Look at how many episodes there are.
But to be honest, after seeing this trailer, I might watch all the previous seasons, including this new one.
Alright then.
I'm glad to hear that, my dude.
I wish you the best.
Maybe the more time you spend watching videos, the less time you'll spend making videos.
Also, chat are very upset with that spoiler.
I'm sorry.
We had no idea that was coming.
Wait, what spoiler?
I'm guessing.
I guess it's Sokka.
Is that the Jedi Order?
Yeah.
Who cares?
They do.
Chat knows.
Chat cares.
Isn't that a decade ago?
I refuse to see Rebels movie.
It doesn't matter, okay?
It looks like shit.
I mean, look at the spaghetti lightsabers.
It just doesn't look appealing to me.
Oh my god.
I'll have some pieces of that.
That is some ugly ass animation.
To see if the show is worth watching or not.
Well, the lighting and shading is awful.
Yeah, check out Resistance they got even worse.
Oh yeah, it looks terrible.
Yeah, I did not like the animation for Rebels.
Yeah, it was Rebels.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, but I didn't like the animation for the Clone Wars before I started watching it,
and then it gets progressively better.
I love the Clone Wars, and I enjoyed Rebels,
but the animation for Rebels still bothers me,
and I haven't seen Resistance, and I won't watch Resistance.
Oh my god, they can't even get the animation right with Disney.
Sir, for the Ahsoka Invader battle, that scene looked pretty intense.
You're getting more story.
You might want to, if they're upset about spoilers,
you might want to bump past this.
Those light sabers are like spaghetti ones.
Look, now there's a big spoiler in Rebels that can be...
Darth Maul dies.
Obi-Wan Kenobi looks just like a rhubarb pie.
Whoever in chat is worried about us would just go,
blah, blah, blah, blah, until you don't recognize anything on screen.
Okay, good.
But nothing else beyond that.
I prefer this over Rebels.
The first season was good.
I like force of leash.
Yeah, the first time leash was awesome.
Again, Stahl's stuff.
The video is very meandering.
Can we get a review of Stahl's a full set?
And here is my Club Review of Wuthering Heights.
Hashtag Clone Wars saved topic.
Because almost everyone who hates the new Star Wars
suddenly shit their pants when this trailer came out.
Fuck The Force Awakens and The Last Jedi and fuck Disney.
They fucked everything up.
Because people were happy?
I'm confused.
What's happening now?
Yeah.
Oh, Jesus.
Never mind.
We like you now.
We're good.
Can't wait to see the show.
No, no, no, no.
I don't think that's what happened.
We were excited about the return of Clone Wars,
but that doesn't change how shitty Disney Star Wars has been.
Guys, didn't they already have the script written for the final season?
And do you know why the Clone Wars was canceled?
Why was the Clone Wars canceled?
Because it was too violent according to Disney.
Yeah.
And that's public knowledge.
So this guy thinks, oh, it's going to be the same shit
that I kind of watched a couple of times
because I'm not really with Star Wars.
It's the same shit that I've ever watched.
What is his argument?
I'm very interested to see where he's going with this
because now he's mad.
Because the people that we're complaining are happy.
Of course, there are those that are hating on the show already.
Shitting on Disney and blaming Disney for canceling the show
in the first place.
They did.
You do realize...
It's just the same argument as before.
It's like they knock the ice cream out of your hand, then replace it.
You're like, I'm still kind of annoyed at you
for doing the whole knock and get out of my hand thing.
Yeah, I mean, a company can both simultaneously
make good stuff and bad stuff.
No, no, it's one or the other.
Look at the MCU, all good movies.
That's what everyone says, right?
She's the EU, all good movies.
That Aquaman, I tell you more.
All phenomenal movies.
Clone Wars Saved is a response to hashtag Save the Clone Wars, right?
Disney brought it back.
You should be glad they brought back your...
Be thankful to your corporate masters that they gave you.
Hold on, he was just mad at people for liking it that it was back
and now he's like, be happy that it's back.
He should be thankful.
We can't win.
You cannot win with these people.
What does that mean with what's his name and the girl from that movie,
the Ryan Gosling dude, where he's like, what do you want?
Talking about the woman.
What do you want?
Yeah, notebook.
Your beloved show.
But of course, all you haters out there are going,
Disney's going to ruin this.
Kind of.
You're just hating.
Stop hating haters.
He's all over the map.
I think that just because they ruined these other movies, they would also...
I'm sorry.
Why would they think that?
Where the fuck is my Force Unleashed review, dude?
Where's my Force Unleashed review?
Yeah, I want to review the Force Unleashed.
What's the title crawl of the Force Unleashed like?
Save it?
You just canceled it and now you're putting it back on TV.
What did your stupid friends think of the title crawl?
Oh my God.
For years, you've all begged Disney and Lucasfilm time and time again
to bring the show back.
They did?
Now that they are bringing it back,
you guys are already judging the show before you've seen it.
You're judging it.
You have watched it.
You judged Colin Trevorrow.
You judged Colin Trevorrow's Star Wars when it didn't even happen.
Yes.
He said, well, if Colin Trevorrow would have made it, this is what would have happened.
And consider all the comments he's made on the Clone Wars while admitting
you've seen a handful of episodes.
What the hell?
Come on.
And Dave Filoni, the man who was responsible for the first few seasons of Clone Wars
is going to be a part of it as well.
I should get you guys excited, right?
Then again, he did make Rebels, but I won't be quick to judge like all these haters are.
That's the case with-
He's better than the haters, guys.
All Star Wars.
Has he seen Rebels?
No, maybe.
I don't know.
I'm waiting for my review of Rebels.
I want my review of the Force Unleashed.
Oh no.
We've got to see everybody dead.
We've got to see everybody dead.
We've got to see everybody dead.
We're skipping ahead, dude.
We're getting a review of Resistance.
No, not Resistance.
The trailer for the Disney Channel show came out recently.
Can you imagine what it's like to be an alien?
Oh, that animation is so awesome.
Oh, look at that.
Oh, stop it.
It looks harmless.
It looks harmless.
It looks harmless.
It looks like shit.
Look at his nose.
Look at the lighting and the faces and the writing.
His nose looks like a fucking testicle growing out of his face.
I'm Commander Sack.
Neither of the Resistance.
Sack felt like Z-A-K.
I'm part of the Resistance because friction is my specialty.
But so many of you hate it on the trailer.
It looks like shit.
Oh my God.
It looks awful.
Look at it.
Wait a minute.
How did this happen?
Lucasfilm is smarter than this.
This deal is getting worse all the time.
Oh, it's fucking prequel memes.
He's like, you guys are big haters.
Angry comments and all.
Ow.
It's a show for...
Oh, he's about to roll out the kid's argument.
Wait a second.
If it's a show made for children, then why is the show debuting on Sunday night at 10 p.m.
if it's for children, you fucking idiot?
Also, why is he...
It's not for children that we're debuting on Sunday, 10 p.m.
Why is he getting so upset about people getting so upset about a kid's thing?
It looks terrible.
The writing was bad.
The image quality is terrible.
Nothing is endearing or charming about this at all.
And it's telling a story nobody's asking for.
Whenever I hear the it's for kids argument, I just converted them ahead to it's shit on purpose, okay?
You're like, oh.
Why do you think the trailer was posted on the Disney YouTube channel?
YouTube channel and not the main Star Wars channel.
I may not be a fan of Teen Titans Go considering how big a fan I am of the original.
Nobody is.
But at least I can acknowledge that it's a harmless show aimed for its target audience.
Children.
Aimed for its target audience.
No way.
Little children who want to be entertained.
I'm not going to go and just let their...
Wait, what about the original Teen Titans?
That was marketed towards...
He disliked the prequels they meant for kids.
The original Teen Titans was awesome.
I think people just...
They just want to have this shitty animation quality they could just pump out.
Well, again, when people love children's content, you don't hear this argument being rolled out.
It's like, what do you mean you love it?
It's for kids.
You sure Jurassic World 2 was for kids, okay?
So you are not allowed to hate on it, okay?
There was a lot of children in the audience.
Therefore, you cannot hate it.
He criticized the fucking prequels, dude.
Kids don't deserve quality films or shows.
Kids don't deserve good things.
Fuck them.
Fuck kids.
Fuck kids.
Fuck kids.
Fuck this show.
Fuck this show.
Fuck this show.
I just don't watch it.
Rebels may not look appealing to me in the slightest, and neither does Resistance.
True.
And Forces of Destiny is clearly a web series made for little kids.
What is this?
Oh, Jesus.
I'm not going to waste my energy writing pointless comments against Disney.
You'll just make a pointless, meandering, insane video instead.
Reviewing everything.
I just don't watch them.
That's the thing.
What is he covering?
You got everything.
Stuff.
There's no through line.
It's always available for kids to watch on Disney XD and Disney Channel.
It's for them to enjoy.
At least we'll all have Clone Wars again.
The fact that you'll go out of your way to shit on a trailer for a kids show proves that
maybe you are its target audience.
But wait, what?
What?
That doesn't help your argument at all.
Everything's confused.
I guess he's trying to call us children, I guess.
Yeah, but it's like, I don't even do that as a meme.
But it's made for us then.
Because by your own logic, they're allowed to criticize it then.
So, it is.
That's my question for this guy.
Are children allowed to criticize it?
What if a kid says it looks like shit?
What if a kid says it looks like shit?
I agree with you well, young Samantha.
You want to go far?
Young Samantha.
Yeah, it's like, what if the kid's like, this sucks.
And he's like, you're just part of the toxic fans.
I will slay you where you stand.
You shall die.
You've been watching that efap shit, haven't you?
What have I told you about efap?
But daddy, the doggy man and the guy in that mask,
they tell me about the efap.
I wanted to make this video because this amount of hatred needs to stop.
Or at the very least, calm the fuck down.
Not just the hate for the last Jedi, but Star Wars in general.
All you're doing is tearing down this franchise with your harassment,
complaining of verbal terrorism,
your theory-dependent mindsets, and your hateful mindsets,
a franchise that does not deserve it at all.
You just dealt a lot of hatred to the prequels and the changes you made to the OT.
I thought this series didn't deserve it.
This is one of the most hypocritical videos we've ever seen.
I don't know, man.
Why are we showing Alien Covenant now?
He's going to review Alien Covenant.
Here's my review of Alien Covenant.
Don't talk about Alien Covenant.
Why does he always go to Justice League?
It's like proof.
You say, guys, it gets worse.
I'm giving him money, and it's ridiculous.
But a Star Wars movie that doesn't live up to your expectations.
Fuck this! I'm boycotting this theory!
Is that wrong now?
I'm excited for episode 9.
And I'm also hoping the best for Dan Johnson's upcoming trilogy.
This trilogy is something I'm looking forward to after the Skywalker saga ends.
I'm tired of them calling it the Skywalker saga.
I'm so fucking tired of that shit.
It's fucking Star Wars, and I'm so tired of that.
And it's them trying to create that differentiation.
They're trying to compartmentalize it.
Yeah, the OT, the prequels, and these movies.
It's all one thing, like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
No.
Hardly new setting.
And I'm hoping it gets the attention it deserves.
And yeah, it's still happening.
I'm really glad it's not getting canceled.
Yeah, I wish there were.
It's like he's talking directly to us.
Just because you hated one movie.
And you really, really like it for why they think it's a good film.
I can't believe that this is what the fan base has become.
Oh, toxic.
Toxic.
Toxic.
Thank goodness.
I thought he was going to say it again.
I think he said several times that we've been lost in this nonsense.
I'm just glad we're not taking shots every time he says it or reviews something.
We have to review something every time he says talk.
We have to take a drink every time he reviews something.
I kind of enjoy that there are conventions like Star Wars celebration.
Okay.
Okay.
Because it's a place where Star Wars fans can be Star Wars fans.
What if the toxic brood go to the Star Wars celebration?
What happens?
We'll be there, Jeremy.
How toxic are we going to be?
I'm right.
Damn right.
You guys are going to brood up the place.
You know, I was, and I was, I was, and I was there in 2015 or 2017 in Orlando,
but I wasn't toxic then, I guess.
I don't, wasn't toxic when I went on a personal tour of Lucasfilm.
I wasn't toxic then.
Just toxic now.
Once you wrong thought, once you did that.
Right.
Yep.
And they've been trying to get me banned.
They've been, somebody signed a petition to have all of us banned.
And even you guys were included.
Mahler and Wolf, you were all banned.
You know, their petition named me, world-class EBS, Anna, Ivan, everybody.
Mahler was in there.
So that is a huge compliment by the way.
We have the power to destroy the franchise.
You know this, right?
I've got a list.
I've got a list of Disney movies that are coming out that are,
we're all going to destroy.
So we have, we have all the power, all the power.
We destroyed capital recently.
It's not making money.
That's literally made $0 thing.
I haven't really.
Like anything.
Just the rat of Mahler releasing a video.
I will make a video without being ridiculed for it.
I wish the fan base could be as much.
I wonder if the origin of this video is safe place.
I want to believe that he will.
He was like happy go lucky.
And he said, I saw a lost jet.
I thought it was awesome.
And like one guy on Twitter said, you're an idiot.
You're an idiot.
You what?
Just made this whole video.
Jay's here.
Jay.
Jay.
I heard something.
Just a time.
Yeah.
Just heard a thing about, about a,
about a thing you said on Twitter about an Elijah Wood movie or an
Elijah Wood trilogy.
And it wasn't the Lord of the rings.
You want to explain yourself, Jay?
Poor man.
Is this a best fight?
It's three.
Jay.
Poor money.
When you start to video up,
the EFAP comes up before the actual video.
Yeah, boy.
Yeah.
That's the power.
That's the kind of influence that we command.
Again.
Be nice to this man.
Please don't swap.
Look how.
Don't be part of the toxic fan base.
He clearly does not like criticism when it's even directed at people.
He doesn't even know.
Oh, watch together.
Doesn't allow you to just click on the video and go directly to the
video.
Yeah.
No, they don't do that anymore.
Yeah.
I can't figure out the easy way to do that anymore.
Now I got to actually look it up and leave my dislike that way.
Well, can you, um, no, you can.
Yeah.
I have one of the top comments right now is the only reason solo
bombed was because of their lack list of boycott.
I guess you didn't think too much about this before saying it.
I'm reading the top comments.
Toxic brood, you guys.
Toxic brood, you guys.
Toxic brood, you guys.
Embrace the brood.
Egg hope.
Oh my God.
You are so preoccupied with whether or not he can spell that.
Oh, toxic brood.
Hashtag.
Embrace the brood.
A lot of I've seen a lot of I disagree.
I love that one.
So what like just get a top comment that's like,
I think this video is fantastic.
Hashtag toxic brood.
Your fight against the toxic brood.
Comment.
There we go.
I'm commenting.
I'm commenting.
I'm commenting now and I'm going to say my wife's boyfriend.
I'm going to say my wife's boyfriend agrees with this video.
There we go. Got it.
That was a journey.
I feel like a changed doggo.
So many twists and turns and never quite knew where it would go.
He never knew what he was going to review.
Let's be fair.
I'm still disappointed.
Talk about mauler five months ago or six months ago, it says,
and this video is okay,
but it wasn't a five hour series of you rambling about what you didn't like.
So I didn't like it.
Unsub zero out of five.
Um, but yeah, I guess, I guess it makes sense for, uh,
I should probably start reading the super chat.
So the wise we actually might not five, um, getting out of here in time.
So if you're going to, if you're going to start reading the super chats,
I got to get ready for my podcast.
I'm going to go 30 minutes late.
If you want to, um, well, tell, tell the chat about your channel and why,
why they should subscribe to you.
All right, folks.
Well, uh, sorry about my connection at times.
It sounded like I was talking over people, but there's a weird lag.
So I host the world class bullshitters channel.
We're about 107,000 subscribers.
But as Jeremy knows, we get a bunch of using our videos.
We talk about the star Wars, Marvel, the culture war that we call it.
So if you like mallers content, mallers been on our channel what twice,
right? I think so.
Or three times.
I think it's three. Yeah.
Wolf's been on.
So I get along with these guys. Great.
So if you like this content, you'll like us.
Uh, we have a podcast every Thursday night with me and my buddies and, uh,
we'll have some captain Marvel videos coming out on Monday and a bunch of
stuff getting ready for a star Wars celebration.
So, uh, thanks for having me on, man.
I appreciate it. I thought this was crazy.
I'll tell you, I was drunk about to pass out when Jeremy sent me the
message. So I agreed in this, agreed to this very drunk.
I could tell you aren't, you weren't firing on all cylinders when I said,
you're like, yo man, I'm about to pass out.
What's up. And, uh, it doesn't sound like Jeff.
Normally you're kind of like a little more sharp.
Well, I was at a, we had a convention this weekend.
We went to, and, uh, we went out with some fans and got annihilated.
So I got back to the house barely.
So I'm glad I made it. I'm glad I made it here.
So I got, I'm going to cut out now.
I don't want to tell you guys, thanks again.
And Mueller, uh, after Avengers, you want to come on our channel?
Oh, totally. We'll talk the shit about that.
Uh, we're horrible.
Yeah. Uh, wolf rags.
You guys are always welcome to come on over too.
So I'll, uh, I'll see you guys later.
Oh, uh, how about tomorrow?
Sure. What am I doing?
All right.
See you later, Jeremy.
See you later.
And yeah, of course it's completely up to you if you'd like to stay or if
you want to, um, pop out.
Yeah.
Yeah. No, I'm gonna hang around.
I'll probably, I have to go feed my dogs here soon, but, um, I'll,
I'm here. So I'm having a blast.
This has been, this has been fun.
It's been a lot of fun.
I was going to say, like, I apologize for the video we covered.
Oh, no, no, no, dude.
I, uh, I, I am loving it.
So, uh, that was probably the perfect video because of, uh, it's
subverted our expectations.
It really did.
Yeah. I didn't expect to get a review of every single Star Wars movie.
Now that is dedication.
Uh, there's a, there's a video.
I'll, I'll just send it to you.
Someone sent me like, it's, it's just anybody who's played doc souls.
Uh, it's a, it's a cut scene with, it's like a boss.
It's like a spider.
And, uh, if you just click that, you get right to the end of the,
the cut scene.
And, uh,
Oh dear.
I just posted that in chat for people to appreciate.
People are asking, uh, the, the name of the video that we watched is
Star Wars, the fandom minutes.
Yeah.
It was posted about six months ago.
It'll probably be the second result.
And he's going to get, you only had 4,000 views on this thing when we
first covered it.
So is his whole thing is going to get just be nice to him.
We're going to have to deal with another person.
Yeah.
We're going to have to deal with all that.
We're evil.
Oh my God.
It's going to be him.
It's going to be.
Yes.
I love it.
And everyone stick around after the super chess.
Cause I got a story to tell everyone.
Yeah.
It'll be fun.
This is a cute picture that I'm going to send immediately.
So on screen.
Yeah.
It's hard to be in.
It's hard to me into hiccups.
Okay.
Super chat of the day.
Going all the way back is can Wolf Rags and Mola do the geeks and gamers
intro.
Oh, that work.
Nailed it.
I'll do it.
I'll do it.
And I'll let them try it.
So it's what's up.
Geeks and gamers.
It's Jeremy coming to you with another video.
Oh, I thought it was like a sound effect over the like glasses.
Oh, that's what we I thought you were making fun of.
Nevermind.
No, I was like literally trying to.
Yeah.
I was trying to replicate the sound effect from like the actual
intro.
I thought that was clear.
And I was like, it's a good attempt.
That was retarded into a lot of things.
That was fantastic.
Yeah.
Oh man.
Good stuff.
Well, if your book arrived yesterday, it's fucking good.
Cool.
Thanks.
He doesn't care Ethan.
I'm sorry.
Is it better or worse than Joseph Anderson's video?
Oh, you mean his book.
Yeah.
Oh, well.
Well, it's definitely a book.
It's just a movie you direct and I was going to say it was a weird
grape.
That would have been like a weird.
Yeah.
Hello.
Hello.
Fellow and with consistent beam.
You guys eventually going to do the school of movies last Jedi
video.
Possibly this one we just covered.
Honestly, I remember getting this requested.
What was like what feels like a century ago.
Like, so we get around to this stuff eventually.
You know, we promise totally book milk.
Let's take my money.
Thank you.
Book milk.
You've been deaf your entire life.
What voice do you hear in your head?
The brain process reading or language in a different spot without the
audio input.
Oh my God.
Don't make me think about that.
That's you.
I think we are.
We were definitely the ones to ask that kind of question.
What voice would you hear?
Oh my God.
I think it's like a, I think it's like a subtle genuinely.
I'm.
Having an existential crisis.
Yeah.
Cause now I'm like trying.
I've never thought of that before.
I don't know.
I don't know what anything sounds like.
How would you hear your own voice in your head?
Right there.
It feels horrible.
I'm not sure.
That's something that that's something that you should Google because I
don't have any experience being deaf though.
After this video, I kind of wish I did.
Mm hmm.
I mean, you can't even ask someone that like, if you go to,
you go up to a deaf person, it's like, what does it sound like?
Well, there's gotta be somebody who'd been dead since death,
death since birth and then gain like fixed the hearing.
That's got to have happened at some point.
And if they enjoy our streams anyway, then we are rocking it.
Okay. Well, if you figure that one out, well,
um, at work, can't listen, but I know the content will be gold as it always
is as a psychologist and a gamer.
I love what you guys all contribute to the YouTube community.
We need more people to put passion into the videos.
Well, thank you, candle.
We like to think that we founded the intellectual gaming community.
Oh, yes, dude.
As such, we have a reputation to keep.
We're primary members, legacy members, if you will.
Like the founder is total bloke.
There's no taking that away.
We follow the, we, we follow the local school of video game.
And all my, all my previous streams,
I just put up the total bloke picture and I just call it the official
intellectual gaming.
Oh, I have a closing shift. Love y'all.
You hear outerworlds is Epic exclusive.
Also your node Giovanna could beat Thanos with golden experience.
Requiem.
Epic games needs to die.
Yeah. As far as outerworlds, that's a shame.
I will not. Yeah.
I will be purchasing outerworlds 12 months later at a huge discount.
Um, same with any game that comes out on the Epic game store.
Fuck Epic game store.
Uh, I, if the game comes out on it, I just won't buy it.
I have enough games to play that I will never ever be bored.
So I mean, if it's exclusive, then I won't buy it.
But if it's like on there, but it's also on like every other door,
that's, that's fine.
I miss playing video games.
Don't play them on the Epic store.
I just, I don't have time. So I mean,
the Epic store like literally steals your info and shit.
So people are happy about it.
They shouldn't be.
Will the Avengers stop Thanos by going back in time to take away his n-word
pass?
You guys really, you guys really need to see that video.
I sent you Mahler.
I don't know if you want to, you can play it on here.
If you want, it's got like 5 million views on YouTube.
It's, it's like three minutes long.
It's fucking hilarious.
We all love it.
I'm telling you.
It's the, uh, it's the, uh,
it's the Mrs. Obama get down because somebody said the n-word.
Oh, I've seen that meme.
Good man.
I love that video.
Mr. Obama get down.
Yes, it's so good.
I'm going to save the racism.
Yeah, I have stopped the racism.
And then.
I love that.
I'll definitely check it out.
If maybe we can pull it on at the end.
Once I get, uh,
get through these, uh, bought your book Mahler so far.
It's great.
Wolf.
You should consider giving it a try.
Thank you.
Well, if you're going to pick up my books.
It's the one with the penguins.
That's the one I'm talking about guys.
Yes.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Penguins are just weird.
Oh, you, you didn't, you didn't do a weird, weird Oreo.
There you go.
Penguins are just weird Oreos.
Also swig of rhino milk for the working man.
Beautiful.
That's what I'm talking about.
Yeah.
I got, I got some geeks and gamers viewers.
Uh, if they're talking like that.
Dual gay men dueling is not dull.
Yeah.
Hey guys, I'm curious if you've seen the film cloud Atlas and if so,
are you, and if so are your thoughts.
Sure.
I tried to watch cloud Atlas and I just, I think I watched like a 30,
45 minutes of it and it was just every fuck it was, it was more over the,
it was more confusing than that video we just watched.
Tom Hanks.
Tom Hanks.
Yes.
Got Tom Hanks and Halle Berry.
It's from the dad said he really liked it.
And he says I should watch.
He likes TLJ.
That's all I know.
He does like TLJ.
It's from the, uh, the guys that did the matrix.
I believe that made it.
Oh, I've never seen that.
It was sister brothers, whatever there are now.
Why is Tom Hanks in like a weird string suit?
It makes sense.
All types of time traveling because that's the plot.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, it's just racist.
Uh, glad to see I'm not the only one who likes Troy.
Did you think you were the only one who liked Troy?
He's just glad to see that he's not.
Jeez.
Rags and move arguing is the best.
That's your opinion.
I bought your book rags and so far it's entertaining.
Keep up the good work, dude.
Didn't know you had such a talent.
Wolf, do something with your fucking life, please.
Sorry.
Your fucking pizza.
Yeah.
Your four pizzas.
You hear about the three movies being set on the old Republic era.
Well, according to our guest today,
it's being done by the guys who do Game of Thrones, right?
Good.
The rumor.
That's the rumor.
Yeah.
You know, it's spice this scene up a little right.
What?
Why?
Rags, do we need to put new batteries in?
All right.
Got to crack out the double A's.
No.
Don't ask.
Don't ask me where you put them.
Looking forward to this.
If folks just wanted to plug the episode backlash channel and ask for help on
Craig's behalf.
He's been diagnosed with a third tumor inoperable prison donations.
If anyone kids can to reviews for you.
That sounds rough.
Um,
said his name wrong.
It's Craig.
Not Craig.
You're all right.
Craig.
Craig.
Craig.
When you pronounce it wrong, you heard Jesus.
You mean Jesus.
Jesus.
Yes.
Hey, Jesus is a hardworking man.
He came from order illegally.
My car to feed my family.
Senior.
Well, don't forget to buy a 24 hour porn card in April at your local convenience
store in front of everyone.
You got a license for that wank.
Yeah.
I was going to say, I can't really do that now.
It's against the law.
Come on.
Hi, Chris.
Also mold.
You speak Welsh asking out of curiosity.
I only know a couple of things in Welsh, but no, not, not even remotely fluent.
Hey guys.
I was the one who suggested the putting spoilers in post, but only as a compromise
to this dude.
I agree with you guys.
There's way past spoiler time.
Oh yeah.
Do we give, do we give like a thing on that?
I was like a conclusion.
An actual serious one.
Like it's not, it's probably not going to happen and it's unfortunate.
But the only, the only time I can imagine is like, say, for example, end game comes
out.
We'll probably, we might even have like a podcast centered around it to talk about it,
but then maybe in future ones would be like, we'll try not to mention it.
Still enough weeks of past thing.
But I don't know.
It's just complicated.
It's like, there's no set specific line of time where you're supposed to be like,
okay, spoilers are okay now.
But I feel like 2016 is a long gone sort of thing.
TV is tough.
I mean, I get it.
TV and movies are tough.
I mean, if a, if a movie is released in 2016, you pretty much expect it.
If, if you're going to watch it, you're going to watch it when you have a
television show, you know, five, six, seven, eight seasons, it is hard to determine
like when are spoilers appropriate versus when they're not.
But from what I could see, it was just really unlucky.
Like the guy was watching the show.
So he's like right next to it.
It's just like, ah, ripped bumped into a spoiler of the worst timing.
And it's just like, you should have spoiler tags for everything.
It's not going to happen.
It's not realistic.
I don't know how many things we spoiled today, just in the stream, how many
spoiler tags I would have to put up, you know?
And I will say as someone that, um, that loves the clone wars and, uh,
and, uh, and again, it's, it's been years, but the, the, the Ahsoka moment is,
it's extremely powerful and I'm glad I didn't know about it, you know?
Um, but, um, it still doesn't, it won't ruin it for you, but it definitely can
take away some of the emotional impact if you're watching it without knowing.
There's an element of like, it's in, you're in it for the journey, not just
the payoff itself.
I suppose.
Yeah.
Um, hey guys.
Oh wait.
Uh, Them Scissor Punch dies.
Oh no.
Best character in solo.
Uh, big of you all big fan of you all.
Maybe.
I don't know.
I loved your stream against Jim Sterling stem video steam video.
I think that went really good.
That, uh, that stream went really well.
Mm-hmm.
Uh, will you do a list of games that you will recommend to play on eFAB?
Uh, maybe at some point we can tool around with something like that at some.
Yeah.
Uh, so how bad do you think Lando's daughter slash niece will be in episode
nine?
No spoilers, please.
Wait, is that what is that?
I don't know.
It just says how bad do you think Lando's daughter slash niece will be in
episode nine?
His daughter needs.
I don't want to, I don't want to think about the implications of that.
Oh, not the daughter niece.
Yeah.
I got nothing.
Yeah.
I don't know anything about that.
Uh, stuck at work, but much love to everyone here.
Thank you.
Spoiler alert.
Reach falls.
Um,
did you.
Except for that thing, right?
Yeah.
There's just the one he couldn't control.
He couldn't, he couldn't tame this thing.
Right.
Break free of the conditioning.
Rest in peace.
Steve Irwin.
Cheers for the reminders over the last few episodes.
Wolf just rewatched the extended Lord of the Rings in marathon last week.
Best films.
So you do for another rewash then, aren't you?
Yeah.
Uh, Ralph backseat did it better.
Ralph back.
She animators.
Yeah.
Ralph back.
She's an animator.
He did a lot of stuff in the seventies.
He did Fritz, the cat and lower the rings and a leg run on tropo and.
Wizards.
Those are all really trippy, awesome animated films.
Right.
He did the Lord of the rings were Aragorn like an Indian dude who didn't
wear pants.
Correct.
Oh no.
I love it.
So weird.
I mean the animation itself was really smooth, but those movies have not
aged very well.
Oh, you're just a bigot.
I guess I am.
Yeah.
Don't even, don't even try and argue against it.
Yeah.
There's a fool's errand.
Uh, I pretend that they recast Aquaman as Brendan Fraser sick of the mummy
and the movie became much better.
I mean, I'd watch it.
What happened to Brendan Fraser?
His wife ruined his life.
Like literally happened.
What happened?
Like literally if you look into his life, it's, it's really sad.
Like he had a wife and she left him and he's been paying, um,
not child support.
Cause I don't think they had any kids,
but he's been paying her for like ever since the mummy three and paying
like an absurd amount of money that he doesn't have,
which is why he takes on all the shitty roles just to keep making money.
And his life has really gone down the shitter because of it.
Women suck.
It's really sad.
I'll take all your shit.
We ban women from this stream.
I think.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry.
Star Wars girl.
We were banning you just from this one.
She can go on the next for Brendan.
For Brendan.
Oh my God.
Can you, can you imagine instead of Eric or saying for Frodo,
he's like for Brendan and everyone just runs forward to,
to save Brendan Frasier.
He's fucking about to.
Oh my God.
We need a Lord of the rings remake,
but with Brendan Frasier instead of Elijah,
Brendan Frasier just cast as every character.
Yeah.
It's all just on CGI backdrops and everyone.
Everyone's Brendan is water man wet.
Um, the Iraq is Aquaman wet.
Um, he makes me wet.
There you go.
Are you familiar with salty crackers channel?
Possible.
If app guests.
I have not heard of that channel.
You cannot judge a cracker on it.
Salt.
Where's the wisdom.
I'm going to stop by its cracker.
Uh, obviously not because you have sea salt and sea salt doesn't
get from crackers.
Man of steel is the room of superhero movies or Superman movies.
Hmm.
Hmm.
I've never seen the room.
What?
Yeah.
That's a masterpiece.
That's what I'm here.
I love that movie.
I'm going to have to watch it just because so many people have
the same reaction as you when I say.
Oh man.
I saw it in theaters last year because it came out with the
whole disaster artist thing.
And everyone had spoons and every time it showed a picture of
spoons in the movie, everyone just screamed a spoon and
threw their spoons in the air.
It was really fun.
Um, hello more.
I really liked your Starship troopers video.
Can you please say Tim sneak?
Your birthday is implied.
Thank you, dad.
Okay.
Tim sneak.
Your birthday is implied.
Thank you, dad.
Did you know that the official video Princess Leia the rescue
Star Wars galaxy of adventures is blocked in Russia by
publisher Disney.
Look into it.
We can't watch it.
Are they afraid of bots?
Apparently.
I mean, wow.
They blocked it in Russia.
You'd question that.
I mean, there's nobody disliked TLJ outside of Russia and the
Russian bots that subsequently come from Russia.
So I can't believe they would actually do.
No, I can't say that.
I do absolutely believe they would do that.
Subspace to believe it.
It disappoints me nonetheless.
Any thoughts on bright burn?
I don't know.
What is oh, yeah.
Bright.
Brightburn is the the evil Superman take from James Gunn.
It's actually looks really fucking good too.
Sounds like an STD you get from clowns.
Yeah, it actually it actually looks really good.
I would recommend you guys check out the I've only seen the
first trailer I try not to watch a lot of trailers at this
point because I know if I'm somewhat interested in a movie
at this point trailers, they just whore everything into the
trailers and show you every fucking thing.
So I try not to watch it anymore.
But the brightburn is looks pretty good to me.
I saw your reaction to the Toy Story 4 trailer.
That was yeah, that's the trailer that even I was like,
I don't I don't get it.
Just something fucking love Toy Story.
But Toy Story 4 feels so weird.
I haven't seen the trailer.
What do you mean?
There was it didn't have any of the Toy Story magic.
It felt like it was rehashing some of the elements from the
previous films.
And it it didn't feel like they had an original story to tell.
It felt like they needed to throw some shit into a movie with
the Toy Story characters.
Are you trying to imply that Disney is a soulless mega
corporation?
Yes.
To give you a quick rundown, Wolf.
So it starts out with the kid there with as of the end of Toy
Story 3 makes a toy out of sticking some stuff together out
of a spork.
And then it comes alive and has like an existential crisis.
Yeah.
Oh, my God, it's retarded.
And then it runs away and Woody and Buzz have to go and bring
it back.
And then he ends up in like a carnival.
Bo Peep Bo Peep.
Well, yeah, Bo Peep Ray Ray shows up.
I mean, Bo Peep shows up with her staff.
She's been through.
Yeah, she's been through ninja training apparently for the past
20 years.
Because now she's a ninja.
Apparently.
This sounds horrible.
You just raise an eyebrow for the whole video.
You're like, what?
Okay.
And again, I want to like I love the Toy Story trilogy.
I love it unconditionally.
So I want to be excited for this movie.
But that trailer just felt and it almost felt like.
You know, version knockoff of Toy Story.
It's what it felt like.
Would they go in for some kind of weird?
Like, what is the true value of a toy?
What is a toy meant to do?
You're like, and I was like, well, I think we've covered this.
We've covered that one.
Yep.
We have.
And they've got, they've got toys.
First movie.
And I mean, they've got the Toy Story land in Anaheim and in Orlando
that they clearly needed a movie to build it around.
And so I just based on what I'm seeing right now and again, every movie
technically is a cash grab.
I understand that.
But at least most movies are created because someone had a creative idea
that, you know, initially started and go, okay, I have a story to tell.
This feels like, hey, we have a theme park attraction we need to sell.
So let's make a movie based on it.
That's what it feels like to me.
Pointing to, because Toy Story three was the perfect ending.
Yeah.
I didn't even know they were making a Toy Story four until like, I stumbled
apart, like across the first trailer.
And I was like, wait, you're, you're making a fourth one.
The trailer as well.
It felt like a rushed trailer.
Almost like it was like, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom.
Story beats story beats story.
But you're like, oh, and he goes there and then he,
then he meets up with that.
Like they even show that the spork character like wants to go back.
Where he came from.
And I was like, Oh, I guess we know that character.
He wants to go back to the garbage can.
No, like the girl who made it.
It was a simpler time.
Wolf.
Oh, very confusing.
I'm sure it'll be great.
Great.
Okay.
Great.
Anyway, actions and character.
The comment on your take of Man of Steel.
Oh, yeah.
We did read that one out.
Yeah.
It'll.
Bars for Man of Steel.
I do.
Cause I, I, I, it's kind of like, you know, I made this,
I made this point about calling everything SJW.
Like we can't call everything SJW or everything is SJW at that point.
You know, we have to, so we have to make sure like Man of Steel sucked.
And it was not a good Superman movie.
Quite to the level of what happened to the last Jedi because we don't need
to start comparing everything to the last Jedi because it was fucking
horrible to a different level.
You know what I mean?
Like Man of Steel sucked, but not, not to that level.
Like that's a whole different level of what, uh, what Ryan Johnson did to
Luke Skywalker, a whole different level.
Uh, Rogue One was actually watchable and the action in the end was really
well done.
Actually watchable.
That's the level we're at now.
It's like watch it.
Watchable.
I don't like yet.
I've, I've been down on Rogue One since, since I saw it.
I mean, don't get me wrong.
The last 45 minutes with everything on scare of the space battles.
Um, the Vader, Vader scene, the, the Leia scene leading us into a new hope.
I all wonderfully done.
No doubt about that.
But to me, it felt like the, uh, it felt like from the moment they started
casting in the movie, it was like, let's not cast in the movie.
It was like, let's not cast a white male on the rebellion side.
You know, let's get diversity.
And when you, when that's, when that's your goal, you're already screwed up.
I didn't think what's her name.
Felicity Jones, I think was the lead actress name.
I thought she was cringe.
Um, I just like any of the characters at all.
They were so uninteresting.
The robot was the best one.
He absolutely was K2SO easily the best one.
And like when you have a Star Wars movie with no interest in it,
that's a problem.
Now, Ben Mendelsohn was awesome because Ben Mendelsohn wakes up awesome.
I mean, I love Ben Mendelsohn.
I think he's a fantastic actor.
I thought he was really, I thought he was underused his critic, but he was,
he was, he was awesome.
Yeah.
He actually totally wasted.
Massively wasted.
He plays a father and it's like, when you've seen what he's done,
you're like, why did you cast him as nameless dude who worked on Death Star?
It complains and then gets shot.
You're like, cool.
What was the point?
He's the guy who could have been like a, there's so many things he could have
been.
Why did they make him him?
Whatever.
Um, shout out to the most moist man on the internet,
Jeff from world class.
Bullshit.
Oh, yeah.
Sorry.
Right.
Also friends.
Don't let friends get a gun.
I don't get it.
I do.
I gotcha.
I gotcha.
I gotcha.
Hashtag trash can bigger.
Okay.
I'm so lost.
At least it keeps in the theme of the video that we were watching.
I'm so lost.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
Okay.
So.
Man of steel was missing Henry Cavill's iconic melting face.
Oh yeah.
That's true.
You need, you need to get him to get that mustache.
Imagine they actually asked him to grow a mustache for the next two.
To remain consistent.
This shows how, this is how much I hated man of steel and BBS.
I actually enjoyed justice league because Superman in theory was done better in justice
league.
No.
Obviously the disaster with his face aside.
You're talking about because he wasn't droopy and dark, but the, the, the, yes.
Yeah.
He, he was somewhat heroic in that movie and that's really all I cared about with justice
league.
I'm like, I know everything's going to like, you can't bring Snyder's vision and fucking
Josh Wheaton's vision together and make a coherent movie.
Get the fuck out of here.
Are you implying that you want your superheroes to be superheroes?
Oh, it's, it's a strange thing.
You know, um, I would rather them, uh, be somewhat hopeful.
Um, and I mean, Superman, I know it's a fair, it's a lot of toxicity in my comment just
now.
And I apologize.
Um, so, but yeah, the thing about Superman is, you know, Superman has to inspire.
He has to make people feel like everything's going to be okay.
Even if it's not going to be okay, Superman is supposed to make you believe that everything
is going to be okay.
And he has the power to do that, but he doesn't do that in BBS or a man of steel.
Um, and again, the cringe factor on Lois Lane and him and their cringe kiss while there's
fucking people less than 50 yards away in collapsed buildings that are dying.
And yet you retcon that shit in BBS where fucking Bruce Wayne's running into the buildings,
but Superman's making out with a chick he has no chemistry with.
I'm pretty sure that's a reaction to people saying like, why, why is this portrayed heroically
when there's so much death and destruction?
And I think Zack Snyder was like, no, no, no, no, no, no, that's, that's on purpose.
Like, it's like, look, look, look, Bruce Wayne's there and he's going to get pissed about it.
And I like Zack Snyder.
I like Zack Snyder.
I like, uh, I love watchman.
I love, uh, I love watchman.
I love, uh, dawn of the dead.
I don't like 300, but I appreciate 300 for, for represents, I guess.
Um, so I have no problem with Zack Snyder, but his DCU is shit.
It just is.
There's a quote from John Adams, apparently following the death of his wife where it says
the bitterness of death is past.
The grim spider so terrible to human nature has no sting left for me.
I just picked like, literally when I was thinking of the founding fathers, thinking
of like, uh, John Adams.
You probably find at least one quote from every founding father that involves a spider.
Oh, baby.
It's insane.
Just by a total accident.
Wow.
Fate.
Do you?
John Adams, do you?
John Adams really was an Oracle spider.
Hey, Wolf.
Watch Lord the Rings trilogy recently.
Saw some flaw maybe.
In Two Towers, usual orcs met Uruk-Kai Pak with Pippin and Merry, but it was during day.
Isn't usual orcs can't walk during daylight?
Love your content, guys, by the way.
I'm pretty sure that there's a line in there about, I don't know if it's in the Two Towers
or not, but I'm pretty sure they even like make mention of the fact that it's not normal
for them to be walking around in daylight, but they are.
Very familiar, yeah.
I know they expanded upon that in The Hobbit, for instance, that move and things, but yeah,
I'm pretty sure they're not technically supposed to generally, but by the time The Lord of
the Rings is happening, they are noticing it and it's an oddity, but.
Right, evil and they're getting, evil's getting more powerful and stronger.
Yeah.
Maybe.
Uh, what do you guys think of Jamie Costa's Star Wars film on YouTube?
He's very convincingly pulled off a solo story and is now working on a Kenobi one.
I'm not aware.
I do not know this.
No, no, no, no, we haven't heard.
I've never been too big on fan films.
I mean, obviously I watched the Vader fan film from Star Wars theory because I was there
on set, but, um, I know that Josiah for my channel just, uh, did a quick shout out to,
uh, this other one.
I can't remember if it takes place.
I think during return of the Jedi or right after it, uh, a monster birth of a monster,
I think is the name of it.
Um, but I really don't watch a lot of these fans, huh?
Um, but I don't watch a lot of, um, somebody said to skip my super chat.
I was trying to, I thought I was doing a live stream again just for a second, but I don't
watch a lot of these fan films.
Um, but I may might start cause that's about the only place to get good.
Star Wars anymore.
Yeah.
I mean, you know, episode nine, that food is going to be really good.
Yeah.
It's going to be great guys.
It's going to fix all the issues, not that there are issues.
Jeremy, I'm so glad you've made it to EFAP.
I messaged both of you guys to come together.
Dream come true.
Please do it again.
When episode nine comes out, it's from, uh, William Aguila.
Yeah, man, it was always going to happen eventually.
And it's been brought up so much in my life.
Dreams for the people who wanted me to join.
I didn't even know if you guys knew who I was or whatever.
So, um, you is, well, we've had videos.
So it was a great little celebration.
It was a very endearing part of the video.
Oh man.
It is fun getting, uh, like it's there's, you can always tell by, you know, like, I'm
sure you guys know, I had a mix up with Star Wars explained, uh, a while back.
Did you know about that?
No, I'm no channel.
Oh God.
That I'm going to try not to call him names, but, uh, you know, he's got a big
YouTube channel, like 500,000 subs.
And this is when I had like fucking less than 20,000 subs.
And, um, I made a video, a response video, but I don't know if you remember when the
solo posters came out and they took the guns out of San Han Solo's hands and some
of the posters.
Oh yeah.
I remember that.
Yeah.
And I responded to that news and, um, then I guess it came out that those were
foreign posters, they weren't United States posters, yada, yada, yada.
But I responded to the initial news that, um, you know, it was bullshit, you know,
that they're taking the guns out of it and what the fuck it's goddamn Star Wars.
You know what I mean?
Like, why aren't we taking the fucking guns out of their hands in the name?
Exactly.
And, um, so he, again, I'm, I'm a nobody's point.
I got like 15,000 subs, you know, I'm just trying, I'm just happy to
have gotten some success on my channel.
And, um, a couple of days later, uh, people are like, yo, Star Wars
explained called you out and I'm like, what?
If I am, um, and he basically kind of chopped up some of the, my video to
kind of misrepresent what I was saying.
And he also included Star Wars theory in this same video because Star
Wars theory covered the same topic.
So our series got like over a million subs.
Um, what was his problem?
He basically was saying it's part of this, uh, this anti Star Wars Lucas
film culture where they're just overreacting to everything.
And then the reality was the reality was, was that it was only for, it
was only Brazilian posters.
Um, that was the story that was the spin they were putting on it.
But in reality, that's not what happened.
Um, they actually did have United States posters that removed the
fucking guns from the posters.
Um, so I responded in kind, I was a little overwhelmed.
I was like a big ass channel.
I've been watching for a long time.
It's kind of put me on blast, but I'm going to, I'm going to, I'm
going to handle it like a, like a man.
I'm just going to, you know, I'm going to take, take my lumps, you know,
cause I wasn't sure what the story was.
You know, we were trying to see how all the news was breaking.
Well, he, uh, that was him beginning this little show of his, he was
calling it last week in clickbait and it was a playoff of the John
Oliver last week tonight.
Um, so he was like, I'm the first show he did.
He was like, I'm so sorry.
I have to do this show guys.
I wish clickbait didn't exist on the internet.
Fuck you.
Everyone's fuck you with the clickbait shit.
God damn it.
That's what YouTube wants.
Um, so he said, he hopes he never has to do the show again.
I hope I never have to do another last week in clickbait.
And I was the first show he ever did.
My, my video was what he built his first show around.
Um, three weeks later, he made another episode this week in clickbait
t-shirts after saying he hoped he doesn't never have to do another show.
I never hope I have to do this show guys, but Hey, why don't you buy my merch?
Why don't you buy my merch on a show?
I hope I never have to do cause he's so disgusted by clickbait.
So I made a fucking video and I went the fuck off on him.
And basically it was like, Hey man, I know you got 500,000 subs.
That's cool.
I know a little guy.
I'm a little guy, but one of these days, one of these days, you and me, we're
going to come face to face at a convention and you're not going to be able
to hide behind your 500,000 subs.
And you got to look me in the eye and explain yourself as to why you are
misrepresenting my videos on your channel, sending a false narrative out there.
He sent, I'm not going to name the YouTuber, but he sent another big
YouTuber to kind of talk to me.
You're like, Hey man, he's really sorry about that.
Really?
Tell me yourself.
Tell God himself.
So eventually he and I talked, eventually he and I talked.
I won't go into too deep, too many details here.
I'll tell you guys off air, but we talked and kind of put it behind us.
But his, I constantly hear the, the accusations that he initially put
against me from people and it just drives me crazy.
So, um, so yeah, there's a lot of, uh, there's a lot more to it, but ultimately
yeah, um, you know, that was, uh, that was the first time I ever got
called out by somebody, but when I got called out by Wolf and I responded
and then he responded, he responded like fucking man.
You know what I mean?
I mean, didn't take no time at all.
You know, it's not like he like sent, like it would have been the equivalent
of what happened when it explained would have been the equivalent of
Mahler going messaging me.
Hey, hey, Jeremy.
Hey, Wolf is really sorry.
He's really sorry.
You know, and he's, and I would've been like, fuck Wolf's a bitch then.
You know, that's what I would've thought.
But you know, like you, you just recruit, you confronted me and you're like.
You know, so, um, yeah, like I said in my comment to you, um, the way I met
Mahler is, um, he, he shouted, like, showed me, he called me out on Thor
Ragnarok, cause I don't like that movie.
Cool out.
Shout out.
Cause yeah.
Cause he said my last Jedi video was great, but that might Thor Ragnarok.
And people were like, Mueller's talking shit.
And I was like, who's Mahler?
And so I go through the video.
It's that one hour and eight minutes that he mentions me and I'm like,
is this the right video?
I'm not mentioned anywhere in this.
And he starts talking about Ragnarok and I was like, Oh, now I know where this is
going and I just commented.
I didn't even think he'd notice it.
I just said, thems are fighting words, boy.
And then we talked and I was like, I was reassured by that coming.
So I was like, Oh, thank God.
He's not taking it too seriously.
Excuse me.
See, I have a grievance.
And now a year later, we have a podcast, make videos and stuff together.
That's how it, that's how it should go.
I mean, there's too many people that are fucking just so sensitive about shit.
Like confrontations are good for people.
Arguments are good for people.
Like it's, it just have some balls, you know?
That's why I like to respond to people because it tells you a lot about somebody
how like people, a lot of these people love to throw the first bunch, but they
can't stand and they run and they cry and they play the victim and it tells you a
lot about a person, you know, when that happens.
Yeah.
So, um, but like I said, when I first heard, I was like, and when I saw it was
you, I'm like, God damn it.
I really don't, I really don't want to fight with these guys.
I don't want them roasting me on eFAP or some shit.
And I was like, we've got the best side of the scene.
I was like, I gotta fucking respond.
Cause that's what I do.
So I got to, and, uh, so I just turned the camera on and went full sarcastic asshole
Jeremy.
And I even said, what did I say in the video?
Well, if I was like, I'm so sorry, my, your feelings are hurt.
So, yeah, man, good shit.
I, I was, I thought it was funny the same way I thought with comment that mauler.
I thought it was funny.
I just felt like too many people hang out.
I was gonna, it's funny because like we're talking about this and it's like, you know,
the amount of people on Twitter who call out me or previously rags and wolf or eFAP
in general, we'll be like, Oh, Hey, you know, do you want to have a chat about it?
And they're just like, fuck off.
Okay.
Like, what was the latest one?
The King K guy who like they, they said that I, I'm paraphrasing.
I'm pretty sure they said something along the lines of like, I'm the most toxic element
of film criticism that's ever risen from YouTube or something like that.
And I was like, hello, I've never heard of you before.
I know that.
But if you, you know, a little bit interesting to refer to me that way, when you're just
like, fucking sure, I'm going to be like, I'm going to be like, I'm going to be like,
fucking shit on me publicly when I have no idea who you even are.
And the guy was like doubled down.
Then he ended up, um, he didn't do well because I did a quote tweet and a lot of
people saw his tweet and a lot of people were very disappointed because apparently
liked him out, liked him.
And then he deleted like everything and blocked me and everyone to do with anything.
Then like after a few days, he undid it all.
It was a guy called King K.
And then he, and then he put out a tweet saying like, okay, I may have overreacted.
I guess this isn't the guy you talked about in your force awakens video recently, is it?
No, this was, this was after that.
There's so many of them like me and I know and rice have to keep track of like an
enemy's list.
Like we're like, oh yeah, you know, someone's never talked to people we've never
interacted with.
It's like, check out this video.
It's like, oh, is that someone that hates us?
Let's check.
We've made a lot of enemies.
I've got this Reddit, this Reddit thread that was made about me.
And it was basically talking about how I created or, uh, my, uh, how I, my hypocritical
ways of, of how I've manipulated and indoctrinated all of these white kids into
building geeks and gamers.
And I'm like, what the fuck?
We got the same thing with Reddit.
Reddit hates me and, uh, rags and wolf.
Definitely.
There's some stuff on there.
That's what they were talking about.
Like my channel, I've had my channel for about four years now and I didn't run it
for the first, I didn't run the channel.
I had other people on my team running my channel and it was really buttoned up,
really politically correct because I was, you know, I've talked about this plenty of
times in my channel, but I was really adamant about being a leader and not rocking
the boat, not taking a public stance, not telling people I'm a Trump supporter, you
know, cause that would be bad for geeks and gamers, you know?
And, but all my team, they were, I let them say whatever they wanted.
And so, um, before I saw the last Jedi, I told my team that, that December and the
beginning of that December, I said, guys, look, channel's got 800 fucking subs.
You know, the website is not getting the traction.
I've rode the fence for too long.
I have to be myself and I'm going to piss a lot of people off, but I'm going to,
I'm going to just go full Jeremy and be myself and that's going to piss a lot of
you off.
So you got to go, you got to understand it.
And so I did.
And yes, what happened took off and channel went from 800 subs after three
years to a hundred thousand in a year, just by being honest and not worrying
about who I'm pissing off.
Interesting.
Got to be yourself.
I told her, I read it.
Can't put up a face.
You know, you just got to be you.
You have to let your, you got to be honest with people.
And if people don't, that's one of the big things is like you traffic in what
essentially is your reputation is, is like your brand is your reputation.
Your name's your reputation.
And it means so much and you can't, you can't be dishonest.
You can't be a shill can't be fakie.
Well, it works for some people.
It works for, well, yeah, it works for some people.
Most people don't have my respect.
Someone in the chat said, Jeremy is the only one who, right, man, Jeremy, you're
my only hope and it's, it is, it's, it's, I didn't know what was going to happen.
I mean, when I started speaking out about Star Wars, because I was a Star
Wars celebration and this was before I was like, you know, I was telling my
personal friends, I'm like, this is fucking bullshit, what they're doing.
But I was standing there at the Battlefront panel when they announced
Battlefront two and before the panel started, they, there's some, some person,
some woman got on the microphone.
She goes, how many girl gamers are in here?
And you heard like three fucking girls scream, you know, out of like hundreds
of people and I'm making you feel awkward.
Like stop pointing it out.
I'm just here for fucking games.
I just want to play games.
Leave me alone.
That was so cringe.
That was so cringe.
Like what, and then of course we get the reveal of Aiden who was the main
character in Battlefront two.
And I'm like, God damn, man.
Like another female lead.
Like I get it, but shit, like, are we going to keep doing this?
And you know, I just, all of that stuff was, was building up in me.
And so January, man, I was just like, fuck it, you know, and it was good.
It was a good decision, but I didn't know it was going to happen, but
clearly it was the right decision.
Um, he was himself, he kept it real.
Um, Batman Begins remains the best modern superhero film because it took
the subject seriously, not literally.
Man of Steel was a gut punch disappointment.
Um, I think we all probably have a different take on what we think is
the best modern superhero film.
What's everyone, what's everyone's pick?
I will say that Batman Begins is a better Batman film than the Dark Knight,
but the Dark Knight is a better film overall.
And I say the Dark Knight is still the best superhero film.
I would actually agree with that completely.
I would agree with Rags.
Batman Begins is actually pretty underrated.
Is very underrated actually.
I kind of want to watch it again.
Batman?
Yeah, Batman Begins.
Batman Begins.
Batman Beggins?
Batman Beggins?
Yeah.
Civil War is a, is a controversial one to pick.
It's going to upset people in chat probably, but yeah.
It's my favorite.
Oh, wait.
Are you picking Civil War?
I am.
Yeah, absolutely.
I am.
I know, don't you know, I love Civil War.
Civil War.
I'm just shocked that you're picking Civil War.
That's all.
So I'm happy about that.
Cause I love that fucking movie and it gets a lot of criticism.
It gets a lot of hate.
And, uh, I don't know, man, like this may sound a bit arrogant,
but all the bigger review of people who do not like the film, their
criticisms don't fucking survive scrutiny very long.
And I really want to make a video on that film, try and talk about what
I think people misunderstand.
One of the biggest ones being, looking at Iron Man should be against the
government and Cap should be for the government.
They got it backwards.
Oh, I can't believe people would say that.
Fucking hell.
It hits my head when people say that.
I get it perturbs me, my soul.
Ignore all the other films.
And yeah, that totally makes it.
Yeah.
I would really love to hear your take on that.
I would love for you to make that video.
Well, uh, there's a, I believe there's, I remember what the name of the guy is,
but this is someone who was people asking to have as a guest on, uh, Efap.
He made a video that like slaughters Civil War, like he just hates it.
And, um, I remember being like, do I have him on as a guest or do we
do cover his video first, or do we do it at the same time?
I was like, I don't know what the proper, like what we're supposed to do that.
Is it rude?
I don't know.
Now, do you prefer Civil War over infinity war?
Yes, I do.
But yes.
Wow.
No, I don't, I, I have infinity war over civil war, but I love them both.
I love them both, but infinity war to me, like, um, yeah, infinity war.
It's just, again, I hope you guys might be better.
You guys might can answer this better than I can.
I mean, we're going to find out in a few weeks, but can in-game affect the
greatness of infinity war, if it's not good, or if it has problems,
they need to account Dr.
Strangers decisions.
They need to make it so the Dr.
Strange, what Dr.
Strange did make sense in infinity war.
That's one problem.
You know, like his choice to be like the idea of basically my biggest question
with that is why wouldn't he have just told him, Hey, this whole plan's going
to work except Peter's going to go nuts at one point.
So, uh, Tony, if you can just blast him away, he'll be fine.
He's part God or whatever the fuck.
I mean, ultimately you could have just had Dr.
Strange portal him out and I'm curious, what would have happened?
Would they have won?
Would it be over?
And then, so you need to make it so that the doing the time travel
thing needs to happen.
They had to do that for some other important things.
So that'll be interesting.
But, um, yeah, the other problem with infinity war is that the, it's really
unclear how exactly the gauntlet can do.
Um, and why Thanos seems to use to do certain things at certain times.
It's pretty hard to rationalize all of it as correct decisions.
Like when he's battling them all on Titan, it's an amazing fight scene.
Why is he not just poofing them all into string?
Like he did in, like the reality stone.
I want to know what the rules are with that.
So there's, yeah, there's a couple of things while, and this is by the way,
like the, the moment was between Spider-Man and Iron Man is amazing in
infinity war as well as all the fight payoffs and stuff.
But for me, civil war has probably the most raw humanity moment in the
entire MCU when, when Tony wants to kill the guy who killed his mom, to me,
that's just like, Oh, that's just so basic as an exact, it's so human.
That is so sad, but it's so well set up.
So yeah, it's just like a personal preference things.
Infinity war comes close, but I love civil war.
Okay.
Anyway, did I break a rule?
It looks like my comments are removed.
Possible.
I, I, my moderators control what comments get through.
So, but I think there's a spam filter on there as well.
I was at Louis Laveau's stream a few days ago and subscribed to PewDiePie.
It was censored in chat and moderators had to approve it manually.
Because of course it is.
Because of course it is.
Of course it is.
Just wanted to say, I love how much you guys encourage conversation.
That's solely lacking in current society.
Keep on drinking that rhino milk.
Yeah, boy, we're at five and a half hours and it's probably at least an hour left.
A swig of party boob milk for the workin' lurkin' man.
That's a new one.
I literally thought TFA would have flopped if it did not have
the word Star Wars in front of it.
It's possible.
Like, subscribe to PewDiePie is working in the chat now.
Good, good, good.
I think he uploaded a video about Shane Dawson fuckin' his cat.
So I'm gonna have to watch that video.
You guys hear about that?
I've heard, yeah, I've heard some weird things about that.
Something like, so I was a follow Keemstar on Twitter.
I had to claim.
So, okay, so there was some audio of Shane, and I don't know any,
I've never seen a Shane Dawson video.
Okay, so, so there was some audio of Shane Dawson talking on a podcast.
If I have all this wrong, I apologize, but this is just what, what I heard
and what I saw through Keemstar.
He was talking on a podcast and he was making these comments about how
he jerked off on his cat.
Yeah.
And then he went, I guess it started blowing up all over Twitter.
And then he directly tweeted and said, I didn't fuck my cat.
I didn't stick my dick in my cat.
Yada, yada, yada.
Um, just went all in detail about it.
I'm like, what the fuck?
Why would, yeah, I remember, he like, he like counters all the individual
claims instead of just being like, I didn't fuck my cat.
So then this channel memeology 101, I don't know if you guys are familiar
with memeology 101, but, um, he talked about how the next day Shane Dawson,
I guess, um, you know, he announced a, you know, uh, his, he's getting
married to his boyfriend or something.
Kind of like a Kevin Spacey thing, you know, um, yeah.
And so to kind of divert all of the stuff that was going on, but, but it
was already public knowledge that he was gay, apparently.
So at the end of memeology video, great videos, memeology shows this clip
of him holding, I think his dog.
And he's like, come to daddy and he puts his face in between his dog's legs.
It's fucked up.
So when I heard that he's made a joke, that's what he covered it.
I was like, okay, that's this room.
But when I saw that clip, I was like, what the hell?
That's weird.
That's what, yeah.
When I saw that clip, I'm like, okay, uh, that's, that's disgusting.
But I mean, beyond disgusting, pretty nasty.
Yeah.
I don't know.
I don't know what's been done.
What's going on there?
How do you even get away with that?
Like that's like a public video.
Well, this is the thing.
It looks like he's streaming when he does it.
So it's like, what are you doing?
I don't know where, I don't know where a memeology got the clip from.
But when I saw the clip, I'm like, whoa.
Whoa.
I mean, again, man, I've already gotten in trouble for my whole little
stuff I said about James Gunn.
I pissed people off no matter what.
So I'm not trying to be joke police here, but I'm just saying, man, when
you're talking about fucking raping a cat or something, and then there's video
of us, you put your face in between the dog's legs, um, it's a problem, man.
It's a problem.
So consent.
I can pretty sure that's self-explanatory.
Um, uh, why are people so weird?
That actually like turns my stomach.
That's just go watch me, mama, go watch memeology's video.
I don't think I want to.
I think frankly, uh, Hey Wolf, I finished your book.
Besides the thing or two.
I really enjoyed it.
I can't wait for your next one rags.
I couldn't, oh, wait, we'll, we'll do this one at a time.
Then, um, so yeah, he enjoyed your book.
That's from James more.
Yeah.
Oh man, James, you're going to go broke.
Eventually, buddy, James more.
Holy shit.
He gave me a crap ton of money during our stream.
He gave me like 150 bucks, like the day before your stream.
And I was, even then it was like James and we're consumed.
We need to have a come to Jesus meeting.
This isn't an intervention.
I'd thank you for the money, James, but don't think so.
But anyway, um, yeah, I wrote it a couple of years ago and I have problems with it
now, but you know, things, I just gotta keep trying to be better with all the
things I do and glad you liked it.
Uh, and then he followed up saying rags.
I couldn't find your email, but I think I found a PC, something called an
Asa predator, Orion 9000 thoughts.
Oh my, I can actually is very, it's actually, it's on my YouTube page.
Um, one eight zero zero get rags.
I can actually, I can actually answer the question about the computer because I
saw the super chat earlier in the dream and I looked it up and it looks good.
Got a really good power supply, really good, uh, CPU, GPU, uh, plenty of Ram.
The only thing is that it has like a 500, some odd gigabyte S SDD, which is good,
but it doesn't have an HDD from what I can tell you're going to want to invest
in like a good, like two terabyte HDD drive.
Yeah.
Just to put all your stuff on.
Yeah.
Cause files and things you'll want to, you'll want to put like your
OS on the SDD so that it boots up really quickly.
SSD.
Oh yeah.
Sorry.
SSD.
You know, like me, it's too much, too much D in your life.
Yeah, not enough.
Um, you know, you want to put the OS on the SSD, but you want to get an HDD
to put like your games and stuff on, but otherwise it looks like a good build.
It just doesn't have the HDD games are for your solid state drive.
All of your files and your downloads and stuff that just accumulates on your
computer over time, you put those on your heart, but your games, you want your SSD.
So the load, I, well, my, my solid state drive, it can't really hold all my games.
So I put it on my HDD, especially another solid state drive.
I don't want to do that.
I just put all my, I mean, I, I mean,
I'm pizza.
I look, I put like all my, I put all my application stuff on the SSD, but I put
my games in files on HDD since I don't really need it to boot up like within
three seconds, like everything else.
But yeah, invest in like a one or two terabyte hard drive.
And then that computer is otherwise really good looking.
Um, my love is always add to it whenever you want.
I love the stars at this point.
It's only kept together by the OT and my head cannon with the EU is still canon
and Disney stars is not, it's the way a lot of people go.
Wolf, I'm happy you're putting new content on dog bites rags.
Can't wait for TFA part three.
Yeah.
If your witches synopsis video was awesome.
Jeremy, keep on preaching for the PC master race.
And then it just ends with mauler.
I don't even know what the stage for that was.
Uh, one big difference between the new adult stalls is that whatever you see the
empire, there is no lavity or wisecracks.
They're treated as a serious threat at old times in the new movies.
They're a joke.
Yep.
Yeah.
Let's just break into the enemy ship.
I mean, they make it a bit in TLJ.
Let's slap them around.
You're like, Oh, all right.
You wanna like these people want to kill you.
Uh, I know it won't ever happen, but to fix Disney star Wars, they need to
kick and then be w I I've the robot do rules, but
I just don't believe it can be fixed.
At least not, not like episode nine cannot fix the sequel trilogy.
It can't, it needs to be accepted.
You know, um, I think episode nine can maybe be entertaining in isolation.
Yeah, possibly.
Uh, who's going to play Sekiro?
Hero, I forget how it's pronounced and I'm going to wait for a, my, my fucking
loser, my friends are buying it.
I'll just be like, is it good?
And then when they will go, yes, I'll be like, okay, I'll consider buying it.
I'm still waiting on the next Ori game.
Uh, I'm dead serious.
I have a title.
The last day of bender season one is objectively bad care for a debate.
Oh, contact the, uh, I mean, I would be up for it, but I wouldn't want, I guess
I've been looking for an excuse to watch the series again.
Anyway, it's been a long time.
Oh yeah.
We're supposed to do that, right?
Yeah.
But you won't do it.
That is, that's not a thing that's happened.
Yeah, right.
I still have seven times if seven is spelled one and I agreed.
Uh-oh.
All right.
So what if everyone just dies in episode nine?
That's the best way.
I've already said, I've already said how I think it should begin.
It should begin.
It should begin several years, uh, beyond the last Jedi.
Um, it should start out on a obscure planet.
Kylo Ren has his mask back.
Um, he's got the Knights of Ren with him.
It opens with him hunting someone.
He finds, uh, Poe and Finn and he murders them without them saying a fucking word.
And you're like,
I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, I'm in, you know, opens with
waking up.
He's on indoor.
He's drinking too much.
Um, he walked wine.
He's too hard, too much.
He walked milk.
He's been getting crazy with the ladies.
Um, and he's like, well, what happened?
Well, that was crazy.
And then young Lando and young Han and young Leo, they're like, Oh yeah, you
passed out, you're drinking too much of that spiked Ewok milk.
Uh, we just blew up the Death Star.
And Luke is like, man, I had a nightmare.
There's a lot of things like shushes.
Everything is fine.
And they look at the screen.
Everything is fine.
It's fine.
The worst part was that everybody liked it.
And now I'm pretty sure that it's already been confirmed that it's
taking place a year after Jay.
It has 20 people on the ship.
Honestly, I think about that.
Think about that.
The fucking whole entire trilogy takes place.
What?
Two years, two years.
Is that all really?
Or is it even a year?
It's a year, a year and a week.
Well, I was about to say, yeah, TFA and TLJ are over two days.
Is that correct?
Three days?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Cause it starts like the next day, you know?
So it's like what, three days total.
So this entire trilogy is going to last a year and a few days.
Holy fuck.
That's so bad.
Yeah.
I felt like they were low balling with that.
I was like, you're going to need more than a year.
I was like, Oh, what am I talking about?
In one year, they'll have a whole army.
They'll be like, it makes sense.
Just don't think about it.
We have an army now.
Even with the OT was like, all right, there's a two year gap between, uh,
a new hope and empire.
And then there was a three year between empire.
Was it a three year or was that a one year actually?
I think the, I mentioned this the other day on one of my life streams
that someone corrected me.
Um, I think it, I can't remember.
It's it's, it was not as long as I thought it was though.
So it was a shorter time.
I think I had said four years.
I think, I think three years was between episode two and three.
Then there was 10 years between one and two, but we don't need to talk.
And I think it might've been one year, but I don't, I don't remember.
It's been a long time and either way it's, it's, this, the sequel
trilogy is going to suck.
So yeah, sorry, I just got a notification on Twitter.
So, you know, Bayowin's, uh, drawing someone who's a fan of the show,
just when I haven't seen the episode yet, but I cannot wait to find out the context.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
John Adams as a spider looking into an Oracle that says hate mongers of the
toxic brood, as he's writing on the declaration of independence that you're
allowed to like the last Jedi, like in what context could that possibly make sense?
Uh, Disney won't be satisfied until they've made you hate everything you used to love.
They have to buy all of it first, but I guess they're on their way.
Yeah.
They're doing a pretty good job of doing that.
Uh, rags and wolf.
What are your thoughts on obsidian moving the outer worlds to the Epic store?
I will be buying it 12 months later at a huge discount on steam.
I don't even know what the game is, but if I hear Epic store, I immediately
like kind of throw up a little bit in my mouth.
So, uh, this is a weird one to read.
Uh, does anyone else picture molar as just the smartest, sexiest,
most intriguing dude?
I literally, hold on before you finish this, are you sure?
Did you write this?
I would never do that.
I literally picture a sex pot with an accent behind a computer.
Don't tell me any different.
If he's not, I'm not, but thank you.
Anyway.
Uh, you can look at his old streams while we're showing his face.
Yeah.
And I'm not like, I'm not hideous.
You know, there's, there's worse things out there.
I'm not going to name them, but you know what I'm talking about.
I'm just waiting for wolf arise to take the opportunity.
But fat man, fat man.
It's perhaps large man, sir.
Capitalism ho best vision.
The best vision of captain.
Marvel is Jennifer Hale from Avengers earth.
Mightiest heroes going to change your mind on the incredible Hulk molar someday.
Uh, like the incredible Hulk.
Who don't hate it.
I just, just man, like, enjoy the credit, the incredible Hulk.
Um, and mainly I'm a big Edward Norton fan.
I think he's a great actor.
I think anybody would agree with that, but, um, I liked the incredible Hulk.
I don't, I'm not going to seriously say it's the greatest movie ever, but I
did enjoy it.
I do get to vote twice by the way.
Yeah, the incredible Hulk, like it just, I don't know.
I don't think I thought it was a unanimously understood that it's just, it's, it's okay at best.
It's not like, it's like one of the most under referenced movies by both the actual
MCU and by people in general.
I think that's mainly because Ed Norton's in it and now they have Ruffalo.
Um, that's one reason, but, and, and I think that plays into why people in
general don't really reference it either.
But I think that a lot of people probably think back to Ang Lee's Hulk and that's
why it's probably, uh, the incredible Hulk has kind of looked at in the positive
light somewhat, you know, because Ang Lee's Hulk was not, I don't know how you guys
feel about that one, but that's a pretty good movie.
I remember that one being strange.
It was very strange.
Uh, by the way, Hey world-class bullshitters, how are you?
Only heard geeks and gamers on one of these movies.
How are you only heard geeks and gamers on one or two streams still
will show all my love equally.
Oh, that is all.
Yeah, sorry.
Well, probably nobody knows I'm here unless they start listening for a while
because, uh, my avatar has my Alabama thing.
I don't know why I didn't update because on discord it updated.
Well, as long as they eventually figured it out, like, wait,
there's been enough people in chat that hear me.
So, uh, Hey there.
I love the shit you do.
If you're ever going to cover some anime cringe, I suggest having Cody
Bayer from anime outsiders as a guest.
I don't know the problem with us ever covering anime stuff is that me,
Wolf and rise would need to have seen it, which is going to be unlikely.
Cause.
Those rags have you ever, have you seen any anime?
Seen any what?
Animu animation.
Um, and a boy.
Oh, I've heard of that.
Uh, I haven't seen much of it.
There you go.
Uh, this goes Japanese cartoons.
That's the word.
I've seen a few get ER.
We try to, we do really try to, you guys have to understand, you never
understand how hard it is to get in concert.
People want it as if it's just something we can do.
We can't just summon people.
These people are people.
Okay.
Treat them like, like don't objectify these people.
Oh, look, ER is really busy building the next Reich.
He can't just be gone any podcast.
Well, no, he's actually like extremely difficult to get in contact with.
He's protected by an army of crones.
Scrolls are a race of peace.
You guys, gee, they are not according to the movies.
I'll say for long, but wanted to send some monopoly money.
I've been working on a thick critique of halo four since January,
40 pages now have been wondering any tips for keeping visuals interesting.
Have some things relevant, I suppose.
Yeah, usually gameplay footage is pretty easy to get down as long as
you're not using the same clip forever.
Assuming he's asking for something beyond that.
Like if we could make it interesting, like, don't, don't use the same clip.
Like if, if your clip is going like well over five minutes, then it's
going to get pretty dull looking.
Yeah, it's just, just, if ever you like, we're recording a video game and then
you fucking go to toilet and come back, don't let that pop in the video
where you stand still, it's like really awkward.
Have you done that before?
No, I'm just saying this, the obvious advice I could give, because I would
try to think of like, yeah, just irrelevant.
As long as it's relevant, you should be fine.
Michael Cera shall star in the new film, but a man with a gas mask and his crazy
dog rags called mauler and me.
Why would Michael, why Michael Cera though?
Why?
Cause Kylo Ben, he can star as Kylo Ben, but not, not the guy in the
skull and the gas mask that just seems wrong to him.
Speaking of which, Jeremy, when we say Kylo Ben, there was a point quite a
while ago where we accidentally, uh, mispronounced Kylo Ben as Kyle Ben.
That was rad.
Hold him, Kyle.
Yeah.
And we, um, we started theorizing what a Kyle Ben would look like.
And we came to the conclusion that it would be Michael Cera as Kylo Ren and
Beowyn, the crazy good artist in our community, he drew a ridiculously
lifelike image, Michael Cera as Kylo Ren, just grinning out from the hood and
it's nightmarish and amazing at the same time.
So we just always call out Kyle Ben when it's necessary.
You could post it if you have it on hand.
Oh, I don't, uh, do you get my favorite, it's my favorite sport, isn't it?
Yeah.
It should be in the, I don't, I'm not in your discord though.
God damn it.
My favorite meme from the sequel trilogy is, uh, when, um, or from the last
Jedi's when it's the scene from the last year, the force awakens where he says,
take off that mask, you don't need it.
And, uh, they, they switch it to, uh, take off that shirt.
You don't need it.
And, uh, Ben Swolo says, what do you think you'll see if I do on
solicit the gains of my son?
And so he takes it off and has got a picture of Ben Swolo.
This shirt looks like God damn it.
I am.
I got added on Twitter with an article that says obsidian wasn't aware of outer
worlds being epic exclusive.
What?
What?
Like I haven't read the article, but that's quite a title.
Uh, can you link me to that?
I can indeed.
So was that like a publisher, like a backdoor publisher move or something?
Brags the researcher.
Uh, can I jump?
Um, yeah, I'm looking at it now.
Jump right into this.
Just got here.
Been waiting for this.
The sad part is the ultra powerful beings can be dramatic.
Common rider cougar has the main character slowly becoming physically.
It will ending force while struggling to maintain his humanity.
I mean, I referenced one punch man.
Having it ultra powerful being does not mean the story ends.
It's just God damn, they didn't even try.
We kept them all thoughts on Frank.
I was defending TLJ's portrayal of Yoda.
Uh, I have not seen exact comments, but I mean, I'm sure you had
loads of fun on set and he was like, stop being mean to this film.
Yoda was fine.
He, uh, he, he said some stupid shit.
So, um, let me, let me see if I was curious.
I did a video on it was stupid when I, uh, yeah, go ahead.
No, when I was told about it on my stream, I was like, all I saw was, was his,
um, he said, Hey, you know, I have pretty good knowledge of Yoda.
And I thought it was consistent with the character.
And I was like, there's no big deal with that.
And people like, no, no, no, no, he said, he said fans were, uh, fans were upset
because, uh, they had expectations and it's not the filmmakers job to meet fan
expectations, what, what, how the fuck do you come to that conclusion?
Like it's crazy.
I, that's not the exact quote, but that's, that's pretty much what he said.
Um, and I'm just like, oh my God.
Cause he's like, I'm tired of this Jedi thing is what he said.
I mean, he meant like the last Jedi and he's tired of people criticizing it.
Um, people just didn't have their expectations met.
Uh, it's not the filmmaker's job to meet fan expectations.
That's what he said.
I'm like, Oh my God.
Oh my God.
This is what's happening at Lucasfilm right now.
This is, this is what they think.
So the fact that all this keeps being brought up just makes you think like,
yeah, yeah, everything's running great, huh?
All the fans are really, how much must I donate to see Wolf's bold head?
Well, why would you price on that?
Why would you be interested in seeing my head?
Which bald head are we talking about here?
Oh, oh dear.
Yeah.
Please specify plot thickens.
Uh, since we're talking about superheroes, if any of you watch my hero academia,
it's one of the best superhero stories out there.
I have not.
Nope.
And I'll take the two silences as nose.
Nope.
Rags RE2 remake review.
When?
Maybe when I get around to finishing it.
I'm going to do it on a higher difficulty.
So the chat doesn't like go crazy on you again.
I generally, um, whenever I play a game, I always do like the default difficulty
because that's sort of like what is set as the, the normal difficulty.
Yeah.
But you said the game was easy.
Yeah, it was inconsistent.
How so?
When you shoot zombies, their behavior is different.
Like sometimes you shoot them in nothing.
Like you shoot a zombie and like the head sometimes and like, they just don't,
nothing happens and sometimes you shoot them and they recoil back.
Like they've been shot in the head and you can go around him and stuff.
Well, real quick, what is y'all's favorite, uh, resident evil game?
I needed to know.
Perfect answer.
The correct.
I do still have a lot of nostalgia for the first one, especially the, the game
cue remake, uh, but, uh, yeah, four just changed the game completely.
Like four, it was just incredible.
I just don't like tank controls and really any game.
So four was like, Oh, I like this.
Or is tank controls.
It's not the same as like, it's not the same, but it is well, the, yeah, one, two,
and three aren't tank controls though.
The, I don't even know how you describe the weird, you know, the, the, the
weird, I agree with you.
I'm not sure if I'd call it tank controls.
It's clunky as fuck.
Cause like you'll be going, like you'll have your thumbstick press to like the
left and then the camera go completely different.
It's the combo of tank controls, plus the awkward placements of cameras, which.
I know there's an argument floating out there.
It's like, yeah, but they got the, that creates atmosphere and they can frame
things deliberately to give you both.
I just found it really irritating.
I find it really irritating too.
When you, you know, this is on the around the corner because the stupid fucking
camera means that now I have to like bob in and out and wait for it to come around
the corner to see it, which is just.
Just tedious to me.
It's scary.
And I'm like, yeah, tank controls was the wrong way to frame it.
But I preferred the gameplay of four as opposed to one.
And I don't even, I'd never played three and I only played like a bit of two
a very long time ago, so I don't even really enjoy two, but then three was
really, I was kind of getting tired of the series when I played three.
The six is objectively the worst though.
Well, I've heard that they're remaking three, which means we're very close
to a remake of four guys.
Very close.
Yeah.
Now that, that excites me.
Jeremy, love your channel, but not just any racist can join EFAP.
You have to be really racist.
Super racist, really, really racist, sexist, toxic old rights of man, baby to
join, sorry, look at, look at, look at my Twitter, look at my Twitter mentions.
I've, I've definitely qualified.
I wrote this line for my legend of core book to critique.
Tell me what you think.
I don't remember Cora opening her chakras like Ang, maybe banging Marco
opened her chakras wider than her vagina.
Wolf's the only person that can really judge that.
I've only watched like the first season of Cora a long time ago and I really hated it.
So then I watched like a couple of the episodes in two and I was like, well,
it's still garbage.
I'm not doing it anymore.
Yes.
I don't know.
Maybe, maybe apply a little bit more subtlety to the, to the joke to imply the
payoff, but then also anything that goes against legend of course, probably
deserved, so I mean it.
Man, I was so excited for Cora because they're bender and they're finally
gonna do more stuff in this universe.
And then like the whole, I'm the avatar and you're going to deal with it.
I even like as a kid, cause when did that come out?
That was a long time ago.
I remember even as a kid, I was like, there's something very wrong with this.
Aang would not do that.
Cora season one release.
If only this wasn't made for kids and I could criticize it.
2012.
So I was really fit.
That was 15 then.
Well, um, actually it is 9 PM here and I am super hungry.
Um, I need to go and I need to eat something.
So you guys do your thing.
Go ahead, enjoy your whatnots.
I will, I will keep this on and playing with the speakers and everything, but
I'm going to make, um, I'm going to make me something to eat because I'm very,
I'm famished.
It was good to meet you, man.
It was great.
It, I do not doubt that for a single second.
Yeah, thanks for being, thanks for being a guest on our show again.
I'm always glad to be invited back every once in a while.
I'll go places and I worry Brian, not getting invited back to this place.
So I steal like the toothpicks and the lighters and some of the shampoos.
So until then, I will catch you guys later on the flip side.
Tootlepip Cheeriosa.
Tootlepip Cheeriosa.
Goodbye, Aragas.
All right.
Uh, so all crusades are just Iraq deserved it.
Oozaloo.
I wish we could take every son of a bitch who said everything is political.
Put them all on an island and nuke it till the whole thing turned into a
landmass of irradiated glass.
I just wanted to, I just wanted to watch movies and play video games.
They say that we're the violent ones.
No, it's just the chat.
Yeah, it's just the chat all aboard the brood cruise.
I can name a guy that dude, you had a debate with Mueller on your channel.
The not so great debate.
Uh, oh, they, that's probably in reference to when we were like, who says X.
That was, that was a good man.
He, that was a good debate, right?
Wolf fist ever.
No, right.
Oh God, the hiccups again.
Hey, my wife's boyfriend's wife's boyfriend likes this film.
Uh, the Kiwi land massacre was just a library enactment of Anakin slaughtering,
not just the men, but the women and the children too.
The words of the undertaker, bring me a body bag.
I'm not sure who they're referring to with that comment, but yes, the undertaker
would, would say such thing.
My granddad calls Luke Skyjacker.
Hey, hey, a little off there, but close enough.
This guy is calling for G heart against logic and objectivism.
So, uh, we have to call a rebellion and crusade against relativism,
determinism, post-modernism.
I don't, like, I can't even summarize the video we covered today.
Like it's not.
What did we learn?
Um, my shit.
What this is like, my mind is drawing a blank and it's like, well, he, all of
the star Wars movies, including the show that he didn't watch.
So I know the undertaker is a wrestler.
I didn't know why they would make that comment.
I want to know, I want to know, like the only thing we wanted him to review the
force unleashed, he didn't, you know, I was looking forward to that.
I don't know if I would want it to review that.
I know.
Actually has a retrospective on, well, if you should plug it, go plug it inside.
People got mad at me for that video for asking a rhetorical question at the
beginning, because the whole point of my retrospective reviews is to be like,
okay, here's what I used to think about it.
Now I go the same way, or if my opinion has changed.
So I asked the question at the beginning of that video, was the force
unleashed one of, if not the best star Wars games ever made, and despite at the
end of the video coming to the conclusion that it's really more like a six out of
10, it's good, but it hasn't aged very well.
People took the quote at the beginning of the video, which is a totally rhetorical
question that I answered and said no to.
And they're like, Wolf thinks this is the best video, the best game, the
best star Wars game ever made on sub.
It's like, Oh my God, watch the video, watch the video first.
If app gaming gay world, when?
Okay.
Close to this, if it's like multiplayer and gay world could totally work.
Oh my God.
Gay world.
That'd be Tyler ran more like toxic brood.
Every frame of toxic brood.
Why do people keep for that?
Why do people keep on thinking?
I'm a Nazi.
I'm not a Nazi.
I'm Japanese.
I'm part of the Rick and see you Kai, AKA, the party responsible for
Knack Nanking and baton death March.
Hashtag hero.
He toe did nothing wrong.
Um, what in the world is that supposed to me?
You're supposed to be translator.
What genuinely, I don't know.
What do you ever hear the tragedy of the tragedy, the toxic brood?
Uh, Deadpool and captain Marvel are kind of similar.
Both the character personalities are poor with bad stories, except Deadpool
has some decent stories too.
And actual character arcs while she doesn't, is that you're referring
to the comics or the movies?
There's goddamn that pulls better than Deadpool has an actual fan base
and a following after Marvel.
Doesn't this, this, this one guy, maybe two guys who like Captain
Marvel guys in quotations, destroyed Star Wars, kill it.
If you have to toxic brood.
Yeah, that's something they'd say.
Hey, Wolf.
Can you say the sentence?
You men see little queer.
What am I supposed to say that in a specific way or you think they'd
request an accent or something?
I don't know.
Is it, is it the Lyle one?
Is that what they want from me?
Don't know.
That's usually the one they want from me.
You made see a little queer.
I don't want to be one day.
Uh, nice to see you too.
Any fap enjoy everyone's channels with that.
Will the high council do a watch party of the old Republic cinematic trailers?
We can do that.
I would actually be interested to do that.
I'll talk to the guys.
The cinematic trailers look so cool back in the day.
Uh, what's up my brooders.
Let's take down the biggest meteor empire in history.
One seven hour YouTube stream at a time.
Just like our fascist forefathers want it.
Yo, sub party animals and lovable a holes.
Um, destroy the franchise, corrupt it all.
Oh God, Jeremy, did you ever see, did you see the, uh, uh, the second Joe Rogan show
with Alex on there?
Uh, with Jones?
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
God, man, that was a meme machine of a, of a, my God, it was awesome.
I love one.
I'm kind of retarded.
I just love that part where.
I love that part where.
I love that part where.
I love that part where.
I just love that part where he like loses his mind and he's like, the aliens are coming
from the other dimension, trying to steal the children and I'm not going to deal with it.
I was just laughing so hard.
And then, um, Eddie Bravo comes in and he's like, Eddie, I want you to put me in a
chokehold and Joe's like, no, don't, don't do it.
Oh, that was a great love dude.
The fact that they are trying to take this type of entertainment from us, uh, it shows
what type of people they are.
The fact you want to take Alex Jones from us.
He is so entertaining.
Do you think we can get Alex Jones on the show?
Oh my God.
Can we do you think, can I just say I want to come back for that show?
If that happens, we wouldn't even need a video, but we want to do it.
Would there even be any controversy?
Like, can we just get Alex Jones?
I don't have to, like, I don't even know how to contact.
I don't know why you would come on.
Chat, find a way for us to contact Alex Jones and we will get him on the show.
That would be great.
Could you guys, and somebody just said, uh, do a car video with him.
Oh man.
If I could do a car video with Alex Jones, that would be the greatest thing ever.
I would have him screaming at people, uh, as we dropped down the road, if we could
just get Alex to say some crazy shit for five hours.
I just asked him what his opinion on Lizzie's people is.
Oh man.
John Adams was my favorite Spider-Man.
That's yeah.
He was, he was good in the image of Spider-Man too.
You can only like three fifths of the last Jedi.
I think that's fair.
Oh no.
He refused to allow you to like anymore.
Spider-Verse 2 stars John Adams.
These guys are amazing.
Keep being awesome.
Oh no.
I demanded the Sudenten land.
I wish I had chat inside my brain so I could get every single reference instead
of being a bumbling idiot when reading some of these.
At least you're not the, at least I don't feel alone now.
Cause they killed me for all of my misspelling and miss types, uh, misspeaking
on, um, you know, my streams on super chats.
I'm just like,
you do your best, you know?
And then they're like,
it happens to all of us.
Yeah, it happens to all of us.
So I hate.
Everything is cinema toxic, toxic brood, maybe, but you have the right to like
the last Jedi and to accept my shackles, except you will fuck you off.
Wolf is waifu.
Oh, wait, isn't great.
Fuck off.
But Wolf is waifu that that's a, that's hard to keep track of how that way.
So any standards are now absurd demands that explains about modern media,
actually, no, all they say, they just turn your standard or request or demand or
whatever into the most ridiculous version of it.
And then they say it's an absurd demand.
The best way to win an argument, the toxic brood mantra.
That's how we're going to win.
Not saving what we love, fighting what we hate.
Oh yes.
Beautiful message.
Imagine like, you know, Star Wars down the line was given to someone who wanted to
make up for episode eight and they had a character have that like theme throughout
the movie, not about saving what you love.
It's about fighting what you hate, prevent them from ever getting it.
You're just like, Oh guys, that's you must have hated the last Jedi.
Is it too much to make legends canon again?
They wiped it in one sentence.
I think they could bring it back with just one.
Is that what, uh, that what he means?
They wanted the actual good stuff back or that's toxic.
I would assume anything that the guy doesn't agree with is toxic.
So it seems like he was in favor of any decision Disney have made.
And it's, it's these people that talk about toxicity and the internet and how
bad everything is.
It's like, Oh my God, I pity you.
If you ever joined like an Xbox live call of duty, you know, chat back in 2011 or
some shit, you would have never survived.
You know what I mean?
Like, God, this is nothing.
What we deal with on the internet is nothing compared to online video games
and the shit talking and the amount of times my mother has been fucked.
Like, you know what I mean?
Like these people just don't live in the real world.
Apparently Xbox live people had had their way with her, but I just, I just
wonder what utopia these people are all these years.
You know what I mean?
We're just in place where every single person in Xbox live, all their dads and
their uncles worked at Microsoft.
That's right.
I can get you bad.
I can get you bad.
It's like, God, they had a lot of confirmed kills, you know, by far.
Oh, Oh God.
That old name, the beautiful me, dude.
I remember I was like, I must've been like 11 or 12 when I first saw that
meme and it was a dude replying to me and like the YouTube comments section.
And I was like, I didn't realize it was a meme at that point because it was like
really new and I was like, Oh man.
Why is he so mad at me?
What if you ever, if you ever guys ever seen that message on Xbox live
about the dinosaur egg.
No, what's that?
Never somebody sent somebody was mad at somebody in an online game
for killing them or something.
And I just had to pull it up because I just remembered it and said, uh, I'm
going, God damn it.
I love Xbox live bullshit.
I'm going, I'm going, I don't know if I can say this out laughing.
All right.
I am going to travel back in time.
Find a dinosaur egg, bring it back to the future.
Sit on it till it hatches, raise it, love it, and then watch it.
Mangle your lifeless, helpless carcass while I touch myself inappropriately.
I mean, fair enough.
You got to go to those legs, you know.
Oh, but we're toxic because we don't like the last Jedi.
Like these people like, please join Xbox life for just, just five minutes.
Oh God, so good.
Imagine this team game, gay rape day world.
Yeah.
If you combine them, it's just, that becomes the ultimate.
You imagine we had an Efap gaming title and gay rape day world, the test
of how long do we have before we booted?
Let's find out.
You'd have to put it GRDP.
Yeah, people would know people would know level your work.
Here's some beer money, guys.
Watch all your poo rags.
Oh, that's, that's where we're at in the stupid chats right now.
Oh boy.
Um, bring on Louie.
No.
Oh wait.
Yeah, that was still earlier.
Wasn't bring on Louie.
Levi or they, I've still not a hundred percent on that.
I think it's Levi that rags said it earlier.
I should have, but that's live a bring on Louie.
There you go.
I sold it.
I'll just say Louie to have a long man off.
I mean, rags are said he's interested in coming on.
So we probably will.
Um, I just love this community.
We love you as well, James.
You're an extremely generous person.
We're starting to assume might be like a millionaire.
He, uh, put it in another super chat, um, like maybe 15 or so minutes ago.
And he was like, don't worry guys.
This is my pay.
This is for his water.
Sorry.
From his paycheck, not his tax returns.
Oh.
Explode when I speak, uh, words can't melt steel, the toxic brood, whole, my rhino
milk, either eventually if Apple have its own language, cause of all the memes and
it'll just be constant, we'll never know what anyone's ever saying he's felt
harassment like Tommy Wiseau.
Uh, so a lot of things like knowing the Star Wars chick likes you guys.
I must insist you have her on one so we can look slash listen to women.
That's a good meme.
Because, and two because she's pretty damn good also again.
Yeah, we're on board with it.
Uh, it's just a matter of, I mean, fucking hell, Jeff took way too long
to be able to come on here and it's not his fault.
It's our fault.
Getting guests in order.
Cause we usually do an EFAB once per week at most, and then, uh, times two guests,
one guest, returning guests, just guests, guests, guests, guests.
So it's like, yes, basically we're on board with pretty much having everybody.
We had major Lee.
So I think it's at the point now where we can say we'd have everybody.
She put the expressionless face in the chat.
Is that bad?
She's not impressed with you, mauler.
She must be aware of the major lead meme for the women thing.
Did you guys had major Leon?
Well, didn't she say mention something to that effect?
Like, yeah, no, you had, you guys had him on.
You know him.
You know him.
How'd that go?
I mean, I know this video.
Oh, you know, yeah, you should check it out.
It's embarrassing.
Yeah, I wasn't there.
I had to work that night.
It was actually because Anna did tell me that he, he was on here and I guess it
just, I forgot about, I mentioned it, but she did tell me about that.
I need to watch that video.
Cause he, he, he has me in his, in his video, uh, among everybody else.
So, yeah, we covered his video.
I just had that we didn't make it in me or wolf, like, what the hell, you know,
we deserve a little bit of appreciation for helping everybody.
I heard that.
I, and I already said it.
I know, I know before you made that comment that I remembered you told me, um,
but, uh, yeah, so I'm going to have to check that one out.
He was a friendly dude.
He was just, he said a lot of funny things.
Like he, he was like, uh, we can't remember some of the best quotes.
A lot of his quotes are in my April fool's day video.
So it'll be fun for people.
He said a lot of funny shit.
Uh, let's just put it that way.
Good guy.
We, we totally have them on again.
Just rags might have to take a leave of absence.
We'll put up with this time around slice and dice.
Slice and dice brothers, uh, verbal terror is very, verbal terrorism is melting
steel beams, Bracks to you all defending SJWs.
They're not a brood.
You're a brood.
They're a clan.
If you had to choose between them, I'd go with brood.
I think it's cooler, you know, it's like a, like a hive mind sort of situation
going on where we feed haters regularly with our videos, beautiful system.
Um, am I the only one who thinks the video game donkeys content isn't as good
as it used to be in those game reviews are just kind of bad now.
I don't watch him.
Don't watch this.
We'll see what chat thinks they can review.
Uh, I could give a fuck rags.
Rag is probably in reference to him explaining the grammar behind, uh, I
couldn't give a shit or I could give a shit, uh, spider butts before I was able
to pick up on the stream because I'm down with the sickness and other news.
I've beaten DMC five.
It's a great game.
Go play it if you can.
I've pretty much only heard good things outside of tonal bloke saying
it's a repetitive button, man.
I so hope that Fringy comes back for that video.
Well, if we think is like, I don't know if we can even cover that video
because none of us have played it.
No, no, no, no, no.
On his channel.
Oh dude.
Yeah, that'd be perfect.
Fringy come back froggy.
I feel like every time we have him on and poke him about it, he gets close
to being like, Fringy just needs to make videos again because he makes good videos.
I'll poke him.
Uh, these memes are amazing.
Love myself.
Yeah.
Unbelievably amazing.
I can, but I think John Adams would be proud of his legacy.
Uh, the toxic brew is the best Crota big film.
Remember guys, what is that spider web oracle?
I think.
Yeah.
We might need a Trump counter at this rate.
We, we managed to survive.
We're just a toxic one as a poli sci major.
I appreciate any celeb who doesn't talk about politics.
Usually they have no idea what they're talking about on either side.
Yeah.
Uh, I was going to say like, when we got to that point, it's like, it's just
preferable, that's all when you like follow an account, something very
overtly obvious, and then they do a different thing, I guess in the same
way that if followed my account, and then I started talking about sports all the
time, it would probably be weird.
Like, I think talking about movies, why is he talking about video games?
Is there a sport?
Okay.
Especially if I started getting everything wrong.
I found out, I find out every time I do a live stream, I start talking sports.
My viewers start going down.
So they're like, we don't come here for this bullshit.
Sorry.
What's a gay man.
They're talking about Star Wars.
That's where the cool guys talk about it.
Um, but yeah, it's not that they can't talk about any of these things.
It's just the, I dunno, you see the politics talking and you're like,
Oh no, I go to you to get away from this.
Uh, they need to be like Mike.
When asked in an interview why he doesn't discuss politics, Michael Jordan
replied, because Republicans buy shoes too.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Um, M where's the nineties, 90% of TLJ is first draft from.
Hell.
Um, re I'm beef a person like Welsh, I was born into the toxic brood as well.
I mean, we all were, let's be even before two years old wolf was pretty
indoctrinated and time I was down with the brood.
Apparently my two year old self was responsible for Jake Lloyd's harassment.
Yes.
Yeah.
Makes sense.
Right.
I'm impaired has fault for some prequel hate too.
I think he actually admitted to that, right?
He said he has regrets about it or whatever.
Which is interesting.
Yeah.
Finally.
It was kind of like, I wonder if this brought on only by the fact that he was
a part of the production that got a shit ton of hate or whatever, or you
knew the people involved in this.
No, I think, well, I think Simon pegs all over the place.
He's been shitting all over the prequels for as long as I can remember.
Um, of course, awakens.
And then, um, I guess now he says that now he misses George Lucas's touch in
star Wars and you can see the, the, the, something's missing from star Wars.
He's recently said that.
So I, I will not survive time.
More time goes on.
The worst, more people are just going to look back like, Oh yeah.
It wasn't a percent, a hundred percent.
And I, as one of the few people probably still in this, you know, fandom
ministering and all that, that it still claims to have, you know, that I like
TFA, um, it just gets worse every day, man.
Honestly, I haven't watched it though.
I think we watched it once on the high caption.
So obviously I didn't pay a lot of attention to it cause it was on my channel.
So I had to manage the super chats in the chat, but I have not watched the
force awakens since the fucking last Jedi because I don't want to watch it.
That's that speaks volumes.
You know what I mean?
I don't want to watch that goddamn movie.
I have no desire to see it.
So that's, that says a lot.
You know what I mean?
It's really, God damn, it's just so aggravating to see where we're at with
everything, but you're right.
And why are there we putting fucking all the other problems in the last
Jedi, the whole dust off your shoulder bullshit, like, like that's going to age
well, you know, like that's such a contemporary thing, like you're putting
memes in fucking Star Wars movies now.
You know, like it just, it doesn't make any sense.
You know, when you said see around kids, um, almost skeptic thought
that was an anime reference.
And I was, I remember being like, it just had solo and then like even shoe.
Cause they were doing their review.
It's still up.
I think you can find it.
They like ranting about how dumb it is that they have anime in
Star Wars and it's like, um, gotta go watch the quite frankly podcast.
See you guys.
Well, have fun with it.
I've never heard of that one.
Do you know that is quite frankly podcast.
Uh, this guy is a hypocrite.
Oh, you said no.
Uh, this guy's a hypocrite attacking Papa George.
The whole video is confusing.
It's like, don't be mean to cast a crew.
That was just cause you don't like a film.
Also fuck George Lucas.
He ruined it.
Okay.
Oh, that was, that was a doozy right there, man.
Holy shit.
I thought based on the title based in it and you watched what the first few
minutes and you're like, okay, this is a good one, you know, for us to pick apart,
you know, and so I'm thinking he's going to lay into the fandom minutes and talks
to, he really didn't, you know what I mean?
He didn't really, we thought he would do.
Um, incredibly strong and incredibly weak.
First order comes them up weekend at older on.
Oh yeah, you did read that out.
Uh, I'm sick of a few people that bring big government and sex into everything.
It's just politics, sex, more politics, more sex, all the goddamn time.
Right on dude.
So bringing sex into everything, is that a problem?
I don't know.
AK honey, Dick, the fans and George.
These are all about when he was going on his rant about recalls or something.
What are those?
What are the two, uh, straw man is my favorite superhero.
That could be a funny, uh, funny superhero story.
Straw man could make some, some good commentary there.
Social commentary with straw man.
Since layer is a Disney princess.
Would her castle just be a pile of ashes?
They're all immortalized.
They'll get to, have you ever heard of like a wolf?
The idea is like, oh, alien gets to be a Disney princess.
I don't know if you know, dear, I haven't heard that, but man.
Uh, we need Ray and captain Marvel to fight.
There's no, that doesn't universe explodes.
Nothing can happen there.
It'd be awful.
Everyone dies.
I heard about the toxicity bell ringing across Philadelphia when John Adams,
the spider sage praise be, and Thomas Jefferson chugs some rhino milk and helps
sign the declaration of fandom menace.
It's all in the law, like the direct quote, I think.
Love you.
Girl wolf.
Don't know what that is.
And toxic rhino milk.
Bull's toxic.
Guy needs to get laid.
I'm sure he did.
But he likes the last Jedi.
There's a lot of, uh, you know, that gets you right in.
Thank you all for calling out these idiots in this stupidity.
I must, uh, must ask, do you think with the Disney deal, owning Fox,
will things get worse?
Potentially.
It depends what they're up to.
Who knows what they, I'm really interested to see what they do with all
this, these franchises.
Like do they have plan?
I've said, man, like the success of captain Marvel is a bad sign as far
as I'm concerned in terms of them pushing more, you know, politically driven
identity politics into films.
So I think solo was a wake up call for them, but not like a big wake up call,
but just like, uh, like, oh man, you know, maybe people are tired of
our bullshit, but because you had ghostbusters 2016, it kind of fell
apart, obviously failed.
And then you had solo that was basically a failure, mainly because of the last
Jedi and the fact that it was just a movie that a lot of people just didn't
want to see, but captain Marvel making over a billion dollars.
That's going to give them a lot of confidence before we just continue to
just focus on their agenda driven storytelling and not just focusing
on good storytelling.
I think everyone's like, as long as end game can just squeak out, just get it
out of there, nice and intact.
And then at least we have that, but we'll see.
Um, the kiss Luke and Leia did in empire isn't incest because they
said no chromo afterwards.
No chromo.
This guy, uh, should have done well noticed that she's literally only a
producer and that entirely deals with money.
I'm sorry.
He's literally retarded.
Some producers can force decisions that can ruin films and vice versa.
There are things that producers can do that can improve films.
The problem is we'll never know exactly what Kathleen Kennedy did
for any of those movies.
Most producers of, I was just going to say most assume that it's not much.
I mean, a producer is a very, uh, a vague term.
Like if you look at man of steel, Christopher Nolan was the producer.
Um, Zack Snyder and Goyer had to go to Christopher Nolan to convince him to
let them, uh, kill Zod the way they wanted to.
Christopher Nolan had to sign off on that.
And at first he was against it and apparently they sold him on it.
So producer can mean something as little as money and they can
have major creative input.
It really depends on who the producer is.
Um, and so, and then a critic Christopher Nolan was the executive
producer on Batman v Superman.
And he had literally nothing to do with it from everything that, that, you know,
we've heard, I mean, he had nothing to do with it.
It's just his name attached to it because of whatever.
So it's, it's a vague term and nobody really knows.
Um, you know what these people do on a movie by movie basis.
Yeah.
It's really hard to call, but the idea that it's like, you can blame her for all
those great movies, like, uh, hesitate.
Um, no, Tara strong is your childhood.
He did the voice of who is it again?
Well, if you'd know this, you watch loads of children's.
We, we, we did, we did an interview with her for geeks and gamers.
Not me.
My team did.
Um, what are we talking about?
Who did she voice most famously?
Who are strong?
She's like a voice actress who forget who she, she's one of the
powerpuff girls, I guess.
All right.
Yeah.
I've never heard that.
I've done a bunch of work on cartoon now.
Yeah.
I know the name, but not a Raven as well.
And a soca.
No, she's not a soca.
No, a soca is actually Eckstein.
Uh, Kennedy milk out of the toxic part of the crew.
That's a fucking.
Pirates of the Caribbean two reference.
Well, three.
Oh no.
Oh no.
Oh my God.
Well, she's literally a witch from your book, but she can't do her disguise.
Right.
She changes a bit in every clip.
The hell.
I think he's talking about Catholic Kennedy.
Is it, which is in your book?
Yeah.
Elaboration blizzards guts boy.
I am the president of the United States of America.
Clothed in immense power.
You will procure me these votes.
I don't know what you're voting for, but I agree with it.
I liked Jurassic world two more than TLJ because Chris Pratt didn't
try to kill blue in his sleep.
That's a plus.
I'll give you that.
That's a plus.
Oh, it's it.
I'll definitely take dress world two of address or a last Jedi.
Yeah, I would too.
No, it's not like you're literally dealing with like one good Jurassic movie.
And then he was like, Oh, three is like, Oh, four is.
Oh, five is what's going on.
It's like, I don't know how they did it, but they managed to get
worse with every single sequel.
I will say.
I do like Jurassic world three or Jurassic part three.
What about two?
Oh, I didn't like two at all.
I thought two is really nice.
There is a discussion on whether or not two or three is worse.
You know, I got to be honest.
I hate two and three, but I thought there was more to like in three than two.
I think I'd agree with that.
I'm thinking something about.
Yeah, something about Alan Grant coming back.
I feel like I don't know.
I feel like the tone of three.
I liked it more than two.
Two seemed way too silly, especially with like taking.
Where'd they go?
Like San Francisco with the Diego, San Diego, San Diego with gymnastics.
Did you love that?
Oh, God. Yeah.
I felt like it was the silliness of three that or two that killed it for me.
And three was like, OK, this is terrible, but I like it a little bit more.
Do you like it when they horrifically murder
the innocent man who tries to save everyone's lives?
By tearing him into I just.
Oh, God, I'll never sit well with me.
It was so close.
Yeah, that was like the Jurassic World kill on the babysitter.
It's just a fuck movie.
Yeah, very simple.
We don't want to see characters who have done nothing wrong suffer immensely.
It's like, what the hell?
Why is this happening?
Do it to evil men's.
That's how you do it.
It's OK to keep roasting and hating on Zack Snyder and Colin Trevorrow,
but not Ryan Johnson.
He's a good boy.
Well, did you not get the impression from the video?
It seemed to be it's from a movie I like that leave them alone.
Yes. All right. Yes.
Yes. Mel Brooks should direct episode nine.
It would make it so much better.
It would just be it would just be space balls again.
And it would be amazing.
Don't share it with any one mauler, but yourself a tall glass of redacted
and keep on making the exact I'm going to assume that's right.
People are clamping down on the rhino milk.
The difference between Trevorrow and Kennedy is that Trevorrow
didn't tank a franchise in two sittings.
It depends on you to find tank, right?
It's like they're still making money.
It's solo didn't make money.
So Jurassic have that over those right now.
There's no no. I don't know.
We want to see with the third one, because I don't think anyone
like the second one aside from Shinobi.
I think you might be underestimating
the average people.
They just watch it.
They see the dinosaurs. It's cool. It's fun.
I'm pretty sure it made a lot of money.
It really was, but they've all been pretty bad.
That is true.
Jurassic Park is a pretty long running a franchise.
Not had a good sense. First one is a shame.
Yeah, I I.
I am going to see how this third one turns out,
because the second one was really bad.
And the first one I thought really played.
I feel like there was a lot of the Force Awakens elements
to the first one with the nostalgia aspect
and the fact that Chris Pratt is just such a big time star.
You know what I mean?
Yeah, he's fun.
You know, it's weird is they confirmed already that there's.
That he's and it's like, well,
why do you have them on the mainland then
if you're not going to do anything with them?
Who knows what they are actually planning?
Like if it's called Jurassic World,
go on like, you know, something, something.
It's like, oh, God, they could do like Mission Impossible.
They could literally just go infinitely with this.
Jurassic World Annihilation, Jurassic World Reloaded,
Jurassic World, Jurassic World Endgame.
Hey, Rag. Love you, TFA series.
But could you release them a bit closer together?
Thanks, champ.
Rag has told me that he's working on them extensively
and that they cannot come out at the same time.
But that is the end.
Rampage was the best Star Wars movie of that May.
Did you see that one?
I laughed at it.
Yeah, I think we've mentioned it's just like it's it is so so stupid.
It's not Rampage with the Rock.
Yeah, the film.
Oh, I thought it was stupid
and painfully self-aware of its stupidity,
therefore making it hilarious and entertaining as fuck.
I loved it.
Did you see the new Jumanji?
You know, I did not like it.
Really? I was surprised by how much I actually liked it.
I did like seeing Karen Gillian in her shorts.
Really appreciated that.
I respect whamming a lot.
I like seeing Jack Black in his shorts.
I didn't hate I didn't hate the new Jumanji, but I guess
I guess I just had different expectations for it.
I've only seen it once.
And I know everybody loves that fucking movie, but me.
So yeah, I went into it was and was like, man, this is going to suck.
And then I came out and was like, that's kind of good.
That's why I liked it was because I was expecting it to be awful.
So I'm going to have to watch it again.
Yeah, it was it was fun.
Hail the high Efap.
This is awesome.
L3 lived on in the O.T.
movies as she lived in solo as a slave.
It's mind me
that throughout the entire O.T.
that she's actually there.
That's like, oh, no.
It was like a tutorial level in a video game.
I'll show what that means, exactly.
I don't really know what that means.
Something that's like a horror.
Oh, my God.
Thinking I know what they mean by that.
I think they mean because it was really hollow bland and there wasn't a lot to it
because that's kind of what a tutorial level is.
I'm thinking at least like a Halo one tutorial has the back
to only last like a minute and a half before it's finally over.
That's true.
Hey, real quick before I don't want to drag this out too long.
So I'm actually got to go here in a minute.
But Halo, you're a big Halo fan.
Tell me your tell me your evolution with Halo, because
I find Halo fascinating in terms of the fandom and what happened with it.
So obviously you are a big fan of one and two.
There's no doubt about that.
I know that for a fact, because you're a Halo fan where.
Take me take me from three on.
Man, I so many.
I'm controversial in the Halo because there's some people that really like me.
Some people really, really don't.
Halo one, I love it.
Halo two, I love it.
Halo three, I love it.
Halo three ODST.
I like it a lot, but it was falsely advertised and overpriced.
Reach, I really didn't like because of what it did to the gameplay and lore.
There were good parts to it, but that was like the first one.
I actually didn't like wars.
I was OK with I never felt very passionately about it.
Four sucked.
Its story was good.
Had issues, though.
But for the most part, four is definitely the worst.
Wars two is a it's a really nothing game.
Spartan assault, a Spartan strike.
Also a Halo five.
Great Forge.
Good multiplayer.
But it feels nothing like Halo and the worst story in the entire series.
And there we go.
Yeah, that's not that's not too.
That's not too far off of a lot of people.
I mean, I was never big into the multiplayer aspect of Halo.
Only I care more about the story.
I love Halo one, two and three.
And but the funny thing is, is I really didn't get into the multiplayer
aspect of Halo until Reach.
I enjoyed the multiplayer aspect of Reach, whereas a lot of my friends that were
hey, like, fuck you, Jeremy, you fucking piece of shit.
This game sucks.
Like, well, I'm sorry, I didn't play the rest of them on multiplayer.
Four and five, though, I enjoyed them.
But the general consensus is kind of you're kind of not far off
from what most people say from from my perspective.
Well, there's a lot of people that really like.
Which I mean, there is stuff to like about it,
but it's the stuff that it contradicts about the original story
that I really just can't forgive it for.
And then the gameplay changes like armor abilities and bloom
and the really lazy map design, since they pretty much just
cut and pasted locations from the campaign into multiplayer,
which is pretty lazy from my point of view.
I thought it was a really weak game.
I don't think Bungie has really put any heart into their game since like 2007
or 2008. So see, this is why I've got such a like I'm a Nintendo guy.
I don't know if you guys know that I'm a Nintendo guy and always have been.
And I'll criticize them when it's valid.
But looking at what happened with Halo, like Halo was the king.
Halo one and two.
Halo was the king.
And it was still the king with three.
And I felt like Halo was going to be like that relevant game franchise
for the foreseeable future.
You know what I mean?
Along with, you know, Mario, but they didn't maintain it.
You know, a lot of different things happen that obviously let them down that road.
But, you know, it makes me appreciate, you know, Mario, the fact that Nintendo
is just always stayed consistent and maintain their fan base over the years.
They've had some ups and downs clearly, but it makes me sad that Halo has fallen
so far from the height that it once was with the first three.
Yeah, because I really love the first three.
Three is like personally my favorite.
Two would have been my favorite if it wasn't so buggy.
But three is really great.
But I mean, I still stick with Halo just because I want I want it to improve.
But I'm harshly critical of like all of them.
So yeah, good.
Yeah. When you mentioned that, I knew I wanted to ask you
about that before I bounced off here.
I'm going to be here for a little bit longer, though.
I got to go.
I got to go feed my dogs and all that stuff.
And but I'm going to hang for a little bit longer.
There's another two pages.
So we're getting closer to it.
From the rookie critic, he said, doing research.
Can you guys help?
How do movie theaters collect profit besides concessions as a movie?
Say a movie plays at a theater and makes ten thousand dollars in one day.
How much would the theater itself collect?
I think that depends on the theater.
I think it's different.
I mean, honestly, rookie, I mean, you know, you do a lot of good stuff
for for for geeks and gamers and everything and all your videos
and shout outs you give.
So I have I have a theater contact here in Florida where I'm at.
So I can get some information and see if that applies.
And they're part of a bigger brand.
I can see if that applies to all theaters.
I can get that in before you, but I don't have it.
Yeah, I'm no theater expert, but I thought I thought it was kind of like
it depends on like the size of the theater and maybe the area
or at least what I would assume.
And part two, I am curious if theaters will still be around in a few decades
from now, but I'm not sure how else they can improve or make more profit.
Oh, there's a good chance they'll be killed by the theater.
I'm done as someone that grew up loving going to the movies.
It was my escape.
I fucking hate going to the movies now.
People can't get off their fucking phones.
They can't shut the fuck up.
They can't quit kicking my seat.
I can't quit getting into confrontations at the theater
because some jackass won't shut up.
I just would rather just be at home, man.
And you know about the showbox idea, right?
I know. What's that?
Some kind of idea that this has been happening for over a year now,
but it's some kind of idea where like big Hollywood
directors are involved when they like Spielberg and.
And all these other.
People within that wheelhouse, they've they're trying to push
for this idea to have movies also release within a home style theater.
I think you have to pay like it's like a box.
You have to pay like a lot of money.
For for the year or something, and you get access
to all of the big budget releases when they release in theaters.
And people like Christopher Nolan and Quentin Tarantino are 1000% against it.
Like they are very against it because, you know, clearly they they make movies
that are supposed to be seen on the big screen, and that's how they're looking at it
because they're they're more old school from that perspective.
So I haven't heard a lot about it, though.
That story was mentioned over a year ago.
I haven't heard a lot out of it since then,
but it was something that was in the rumblings.
I personally hope something like that happens.
I just I just don't like going to the theaters anymore.
Yeah, I look at it like kind of like it's an event like going to a concert
like, well, maybe not quite like going to a concert,
but I just like to go to the theater.
I like the experience.
I mean, it's how it used to be.
I just people just pissed me off now.
But I don't like I'm kind of just I don't know.
I don't like crowds anymore, really, which I never did.
But I always enjoyed going for for big releases.
But now it just aggravates me now.
And I just find that in my time going to this
cinema, like this less and less people are showing up.
And like it does worry me some second.
When is the bubble going to pop?
And like we'd start getting mass shutdowns of different theaters everywhere.
It's going to be sad.
Like every single movie is going to be like a direct to DVD release
or it's going to be a streaming service like Disney's.
Yeah.
Like it's going to be like, oh, you got to get the Disney app
to watch any Disney movie or you got to get stuff through Netflix
and you've got to pay for all these different subscriptions
to see the movies you want to see.
They'll probably end up being both like movies are expensive these days.
It really is, man.
It's like more than three times the price when I was a kid.
I feel like such an old man saying that.
Oh, now it goes.
Oh, shit, look at his hand, sad, bro.
If you haven't watched.
Oral Norts videos on Jedi Party, you can't call yourself a mema.
The super predator is going to come and get his powers.
Oh, that's actually a clever joke to think about.
You can say that about anyone without referring to them as being tismic,
you know, just give me a give me a few.
And I'm going to go feed my dogs and I'll be back.
So give me about five or ten. Yeah, man.
Add chat with mate about Captain Marvel.
In short, rather her be the reason Thanos is stopped.
Don't care about character growth.
Also thinks Captain Marvel is stronger than Thor.
You might be you can't travel the speed of light.
Maybe with the bifrost, you can. I don't know.
He's going to puncture Thanos.
It's going to be really gay.
You either die a hero or live long enough to be joined the toxic brood.
Oh, Kylo Ren Parity is from a chap called Oral Norts.
He's. At least when Maul dies in Rebels,
it's a callback to the Phantom Menace and has some weight to it.
And with Clone Wars series, it has more story.
You saying that has more weight than him standing up
and activating his lightsaber.
Come on, James.
Yeah, he murdered them, but she gave him a salad fork.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
Ray versus Carol Danvers, who wins and how.
We'll keep asking these questions.
How could we possibly answer that?
Unstoppable thoughts, unstoppable force meets immovable object.
Oh, we can do a great crossover.
Crossover has arrived.
Good. Good to see you all together.
Love you guys content.
Keep with the good work.
Hail the toxic brood.
May it reconvene again in the near future.
Anyone else excited with the Tolkien movie? Oh, no.
Oh, they're going to they're already disrespecting him.
I I might watch it just to make a video on why people shouldn't watch it.
Yeah, that's always the way to sort of recover.
Because I really feel like that just disrespectful to him
because the instant you make a movie conflating his World War
one experiences with the Lord of the Rings, which he has explicitly said
numerous times was not the case,
then you clearly don't care about him, his creation or the history behind it.
It's just really disrespectful.
I don't like it, sir.
This isn't Arby's.
Are they saying that would be the case if he tried to kill the waitress or whatever?
I don't know.
It had the name on the screen.
Sorry, I'm not sure.
Well, that's a reference to.
Thanks, Wolf.
Your talk of Lord of the Rings has meant that I've gone and bought the extended
edition and love it.
It used to be a lot of people that have been doing that.
Thanks to that.
That's good news.
Well, I'm good good.
But he made our childhood.
He couldn't destroy it.
Exactly.
And theories don't care about your feelings.
Loud is funny.
Don't you find it funny?
Ha, ha, ha, ha.
I thought that's right.
Wolf now has to watch everything he missed.
Not Jay.
Got a midget in it.
Rags.
Now, if I make a movie, I'll just add a shitload of them for you.
You sound very excited.
No, Rags does like midgets.
Yeah, I do.
I do midgets.
I like to do them.
I like to do them hard.
I like to do them upside down, right side up.
I like to spin them around while they straddle me as I lay on my back.
You're here.
Get them worked out fast enough and their legs will stick out
just because centrifugal force.
I thought you left.
There's all that stuff and you just go, oh, you're here.
You're like one of those toys where you pull the zip line thingy.
It's like an opposite beyblade where you hold it
and they'll be shaped like fairies or some other fag shit.
And you pull the zip line and it would spin the fairy up in the air.
Yeah, I'm like that.
But with midgets, I just spin around, spin around on my massive red rocket.
And then they just lift off when their little legs
just, you know, when they spin and I come and it just erupts and they blast off.
Most are never found again.
That whole thing you just said could be out of it.
It's not actually it's not actually true.
We do find all of them again because they're ceilings typically.
Unless we're, you know, in us, we're out dogging somewhere.
I prefer that is Mahler, Mahler knows what that is.
I don't know if Wolf would know.
He wouldn't know.
No, he wouldn't know that.
He wouldn't know about that.
The dog in life.
No, that's really the origin of the shades.
I wear I wear the shades so people don't recognize me while I'm out.
Uh huh. Yeah.
They always know it's me, though.
Yeah, it's a cock like that anywhere.
Green Han Solo would have been fringy representation.
Who's the green Han Solo?
Oh, I think I mentioned how.
Originally wanted Han Solo to be like a green space alien.
Yeah, that would be fringy represented.
That's fair.
George is a rich creative storyteller and a savvy businessman,
but he's half as good a filmmaker without the right team.
I think that's what I remember catching a stream, which you said
you played Jurassic World Evolution.
I was wondering if you had any praise, such criticism of the game.
I really liked the animation, the variety, but I got really bored
with how it was like, hey, you got to choose between pursuing
entertainment aspects of your park.
This is science. This is security.
I was like, oh, that's such a cool trade off because I can imagine
like some of them get you more money, some get you more happiness
from the guests and you end up just shoving all points into all of them.
And you'd park becomes OP.
And I was just like, oh, so it's like Thrillville, but with dinosaurs.
And it's just like, maybe it wouldn't have been a problem
if the game wasn't like you need to focus one of these.
I remember I remember distinctly getting a message like that.
I was like, that's interesting.
There's like, no, it's just all of them.
I think it would have been better for that.
And yeah, the game, maybe there was harder difficulties.
I don't remember there being, but like, man, it was mostly easy.
I think I tried to get all of like this, the parks up to full stars as well.
And I nearly did. And then I realized I was really bored.
But I still kind of liked it.
Maybe I'm just a sucker for dinosaurs.
I'm not sure. Maybe I'll play it again.
Hopefully that's helpful.
Rags is our Killmonger.
Don't know why you saying Rags is black.
Is that what this is?
Rags, are you a black man?
I'm not a black man.
I don't think the prequels are the worst.
Have you seen the holiday special?
Nobody considers the holiday specials with the mainline movies.
But yes, the holiday special is the best.
Hello, room molar.
I'm sending your video rants about movies I hate to a friend of mine.
This chat should totally go to the direction of Mr. Plinkett.
I hope that friend isn't like.
I think you just keep throwing my videos at him like, watch them.
M. Night should direct Star Wars episode nine
because you'll submit our expectations.
We need more of that, though.
I feel like we've had enough of it.
You gave Anakin a salad fork.
Reminder that the yelling and cutting yourself off style of video essays
can be tracked back to ego wraps it.
Yeah, that's actually a fair point.
You'll be interested to see where he got it from.
Sekiro launches in an hour. That's kind of cool.
To get this done, is everyone's going to be like.
No, actually, you thought you were going to finish,
but somebody linked me something that I think you need to see.
Hmm.
Prequels are objectively good. Great, in my opinion.
Fight me.
Wolf, do you want to fight this guy?
Our way to the review.
Well, what did he say?
I wasn't prequels are objectively good.
Great, in my opinion, fight me.
Um, you're wrong.
Everybody, I'm here to say you need a point.
Will you make a video essay, a structure, a plan?
Anyone can do it, so surely you can.
He couldn't, though not everyone can.
Be reasonable.
Would you guys have preferred George Lucas
continuing the sequel trilogy?
Had some wild ideas about the Wills.
What are your thoughts?
Even with the insane ideas I've heard that he had,
I would have taken that over the sequel trilogy.
Yeah.
I don't even call it Star Wars stuff.
You forgot about the Jurassic Park section on Strange Magic.
It's just called the video.
The video title should have been stuff.
Stuff.
You're like, OK.
Call and apologize to the fans for Jurassic Park 2
and promises to do better for three.
Did he?
He apologized for making one of the ways of last year.
Like, I would never expect that.
He really.
JJ and especially Ryan insulted the fanbase for their criticisms.
Yeah, I won't call in on episode nine.
He actually takes criticism.
I mean, you absolutely keep Ryan away from Star Wars.
Just because he takes criticism
doesn't make him any better of a filmmaker, though.
No, but I'd still take him over Ryan.
You know, I really don't want to, though.
Can we have someone else?
I just want Star Wars to end this.
And it drives a hard bark.
It's time for the Star War.
Like, literally, it's been time for like 30 years now.
What drives a man to create such nonsense?
A lust for gold power or were they born with a heart of nonsense?
Love you guys.
Let's well, we'll not speculate.
I'm sure the guy has his name is Zach Wether.
Oh, that's a reference to the the sack guy that X create.
Oh, no, second.
Oh, yeah, weather because of the ram.
Please stop this.
Disney thinks we're idiots slapping us and expecting a thank you.
It's a show about space wizards intended for children.
Keep saying that.
And eventually criticism will disappear.
It's great.
This guy has two modes for his voice.
Standard Hayden Christiansen monotone dialogue
and autistically loud yelling slash screaming.
This is too funny.
Have some spider milk, spider butt milk money, boys.
I feel bad for you.
We did it. We defeated his video.
We only skipped a little bit of it.
It counts.
I saw two episodes of Teen Titans.
I think the show is the best ever, though.
He memeing.
Yeah, I don't know.
Mein Kampf was made for Germans to enjoy.
I don't know what.
We're super chat stuck and weird.
What if they gave the kids a salad fork?
This is where the fun begins.
You'll know when a kid doesn't like a movie at the theaters.
Oh, yeah, they'll make noises really annoying.
But I remember when I was so low,
I'm pretty sure there was someone in the back that was that's Darth Maul.
Oh, is it?
Oh, yeah, there he is.
I didn't see him there. Yeah, I walk a saga.
We'll take care of Luke loads gun.
The thing is, Star Wars fans have been pretty damn divisive
long before Disney got involved, been in many heated debates over the decades.
Oh, yeah, the prequels, man.
Loads of arguing on that.
I don't know if it's been asked, but is anyone looking forward to Sekiro?
Yeah, I've heard it.
I've seen it.
I think it looks pretty interesting.
I hope it's good.
And I hope my friends love it.
And then I love it.
I hope we all just get along.
Yeah, I hope everything is great forever.
Fuck movies.
Mola, great to see you having Jeremy on.
Can't wait to see the Captain Marvel vid.
Love all you guys.
Educate yourself before running your mouth on the prequel.
Yeah, Wolf.
What did I say about the prequels aside from what I don't want you to say?
What didn't you say?
What did I say?
What didn't you say?
Like really fucking asshole.
What didn't you say?
Educate myself before running my mouth on these bad movies.
Sorry.
Well, that now you said a thing.
Well, they are bad.
Are we really going to end the idea?
Oh, I I'm not sure.
Yeah, I don't know, man, like the best.
How could you get him?
Hello there.
You guys should get a skeptic to come on.
I don't know that he would ever want to, but I don't think we'd be against it.
Yeah, if he wanted to come on, that'd be fine.
Sure.
I can ask him about that anime thing.
Yeah, I mean, a ornamorn animes.
Hello, fellow Awids.
You can't say that.
The discipline of desire is the background of character.
Joan old look, Joan old, Donald, I think it is.
This fangirl needs his Z's.
Love you, boys. Stay toxic.
Thank you, Christy.
Bye bye. Don't get shot or stabbed.
Oh, yeah. Don't go down an alley after you gave somebody the wrong.
What was it? The wrong order was the wrong knife.
Yeah, the wrong knife.
Yeah, yes, they give you the right knife. Yeah.
Play and discuss Kotor 2 already.
Kreia is the most interesting and unique Star Wars character.
Everyone tells me this.
I will get to it one.
I'm not going to say day, one century.
No, it's Rose Tico.
Yeah, she's the best.
He's so interesting.
Fun fact, octopuses have arms, not tentacles.
Rags, can you confirm or deny that?
I they.
I've had arms and tentacles.
And they feel different, so.
All right.
Maybe there's something I just haven't discovered yet.
You guys see the Alex Trebek video where he talks about his pancreatic cancer.
I had a little cry.
He was part of my childhood, possibly the only good Canadian.
I am the only.
Those are precious.
I have a fox boy, by the way.
The only good Canadian is a dead Canadian.
She's just saying.
I don't even think I'd say that.
That seems a little too much for you, Mr.
Mr. Disrespectful of the Mission Impossible video.
You can't disrespect a Canadian.
They're not human.
Well, they literally can't hear you.
That's why I would be disrespectful.
This they won't be able to pick it up.
Look, we call them Canadians because,
well, they're not like the rest of us.
That makes sense.
I just want to say respect the breath, the hit man heart. OK.
What?
Yeah, you guys don't know anything about wrestling, probably, I'm afraid not.
I've heard of wrestling.
It's the video game, right?
It's on I've wrestled with men before they have it's called wrestling.
It's like loads of white people on it.
I've heard of that.
I'm up on this stuff.
Other things.
Star Wars time travel equals joke, Marvel time travel equals question mark.
Thing that like.
It would be a joke to do it in Star Wars, but they're doing it in Marvel, so.
And you think Marvel could time travel into Star Wars and fix it all?
And game that could be the big twist.
Like Cap and I about go to like.
I can travel universe is they fix everything like this is this is a very risky move.
I like it.
Avengers Avengers Marvel Marvel Marvel Marvel Marvel Marvel Marvel Marvel Marvel Marvel
Avengers Endgame spoilers Ant-Man crawls up Thanos's ass and expands.
I've seen that joke everywhere.
I've seen that one yet.
Good thing it wasn't fighting me because I'd be able to take it.
You guys, I'm going to overdose on toothpaste.
All right, have fun.
Maybe this guy will do a video on Toy Story 4 reaction so we can finally have a good review of Toy Story, Toy Story 2, Toy Story 3, the Kingdom Hearts games and Monsters Inc.
I guess you wouldn't.
You know, the Efap could do that, maybe.
It's possible.
What's on the Doom Annihilation trailer?
Universal is making another movie and I do it software treated the treated that they are not involved with it.
When I heard everyone say the trailer looked awful, I was like, probably not that bad.
And then I watched and I was like, oh, it's so much worse than you could have ever imagined.
It makes me want to watch the rock one and be like, better.
Comparatively better.
You ever hear the tragedy of John Adams, the Spoda?
Oh, yes, murder turns Superman on, obviously.
That's you, especially.
Do not Efap guy.
You should check out Rags, a zombie shopping spree.
Great comic.
Oh, I know about that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Apparently they recommend that normal orcs can move in daylight.
It just weakens them and makes them sick.
Yeah.
Sup, guys?
Love you, Jeff.
Jeremy.
Yeah, well, I said, well, it is impossible to have an it is impossible to have an objective opinion in the German language because the German definition of opinion doesn't allow it kind of hilarious, to be honest.
Well, the English one does.
German structure doesn't allow people to have opinions.
Color me fucking surprised.
It started because of what you guys are talking about and my channel has just now become what it is because I discovered myself.
Excellent.
I'm assuming you're referring to either all of us or some of us, but either way, good stuff.
Last was my favorite.
I wonder if they're referring to the movie and favorite movie of the year or not.
No, they're referring to the material.
I think they were transparent.
I think that came up when we were talking about what superhero movie is.
Oh, so yeah, I guess this counts.
I don't know why you would pick that over unbreakable if you're going to go that direction.
Unbreakable.
I like unbreakable.
It's very simple.
Which of you favorite villain in the Efab Rogues Gallery?
People you've responded to.
Also, Wolf and Rags, Triss or Yennefer.
Ah, Yennefer.
Yennefer.
All right.
And back to the truth of favorite villain in the Efabs Rogues Gallery.
Triss is too good.
Like I like Yennefer's attitude.
I know.
I like Yennefer.
Yeah, we'd get along magically.
She's also really, really hot.
Just saying.
Yeah, I think she's important.
Not against Triss, just great character.
But Yennefer is just more interesting to me.
Yeah, yeah.
You look at her and it's like, wow.
Did it not to be interested in here.
But what about the Efab Rogues Gallery?
Oh, our favorite.
When he says favorite.
Tonals.
Tonals is my favorite.
I was going to say, I thought it was easy.
I mean, the others have been a lot of great ones,
but Tonal just brings a smile to my face.
He doesn't make me angry.
But is he really a villain?
Well, if the villain role is defined by people we don't like,
then why would we want to pick?
I don't know.
I don't think it's fair.
Total, totally counts.
Well, would the choice be if he was disqualified?
Oh, I don't want to make that decision.
Let's just go with Tonal.
We copped out, total.
It is.
Thanos doesn't just kill everyone.
He is arrogant.
He is arrogant.
Arrogance is your weakness, correct?
Your faith in your friends is yours, wrong.
That's why when they assemble, they will win.
Everything in Star Wars.
Everything is Star Wars.
I'm sorry, my brain's getting slower and slower.
I'm starting to get confused by wids.
Uh-oh.
What do you think about the Google Stadia?
Oh, isn't that like their attempt at a console or something?
The controller was just, um.
Because doesn't it like require internet connection?
Isn't it like a streaming service rather than an actual?
I haven't done that much research into it.
I mean, um, it hasn't interested me at all,
but the controller is ugly as fuck.
If that's the same thing.
Take my PC.
Big it.
I guess I am.
To the bisexual canines, do you prefer men or women sexually
and or in personality?
I generally tend to prefer men for senility.
However, generally I prefer women sexually.
Yeah, I'd say pretty much the same.
Yeah.
Then how nuanced are your preferences
when finding a partner?
That's a strange question.
Insanely nuanced.
It's one of the most nuanced things
you could probably ever ask someone.
I mean, like, I don't do partners or deep relationships,
but getting to know people.
You know, I mean, I just not,
I'm just not really not my thing,
but people are very complex.
Po met Ray at the end of TLJ like such crap.
It was an amazing meeting.
We knew you guys on the edge of your seat
for what was going to happen when Po met Ray.
Oh, I couldn't.
Yeah, it was so exciting.
The edge of my seat
because I was about to get up and leave.
When he said, like, hi, I'm Po, I was like, oh, yeah.
Oh, he said his name.
He said his name.
It was amazing.
It is just a spider.
From Ryan J. Smith.
Hi, Rags.
Hello.
Okay, thanks for the PC advice.
Don't worry, the money's from my paycheck,
not my tax refund.
I gave the money to the Great British podcast
after that too.
Jesus.
James.
How did we deserve such?
James, I hope, I really, really sincerely hope
that there doesn't come a day
when like your mom is dying of cancer
and you need to pull together
like a little bit of money
and then you're like, man,
if only I didn't donate it all.
Then we will be here for you.
We'll do a live stream.
Just as you were here for us,
we will be there for you.
No, no, not again.
Ohana means family.
He's like, like the only way we can raise stuff, buddy,
is if you guys play Aliens Global Reeds.
Well, I guess your mom's fucking dying of cancer now,
isn't she?
James, James, don't bankrupt yourself, buddy.
We love you.
Just don't do it.
We do immensely appreciate it though.
Molar and Star Wars fans versus Ryan Johnson
and The Last Jedi,
a Disney Star Wars versus Scrubs meme parody.
Look it up, lol.
That's a thing that exists.
That sounds, I'm gonna copy and paste it for later.
That does not.
Saint James, the blood of the blessed coin.
Molar, congratulations on being a thick boy.
I mean, there's benefits, dude.
I have more control.
You a thick boy?
Over the voting system
than someone like Rags of Wolf do.
I only get to vote once.
Yeah, you guys have to work together
just to get the same votes as me.
That's right.
Oh, that's beneficial.
It's been too much time to compare myself.
Looking good.
Obsidian are as pissed as us.
Their publisher made the deal behind their back.
Solstice from Obsidian are saying
they won't work with them again.
Ooh.
Yeah, because I read through that article
skimming around a bit
and apparently like four hours before the announcement,
the devs were putting in like Steam achievements and stuff.
Oh.
So they got the announcement
because I guess they just assumed it would be on Steam
and they were putting Steam stuff in
because that's what you do to sell games on PC.
He's like, of course it's going on Steam.
That's where everyone goes.
Apparently not.
So yeah, they're probably pretty fucking pissed
because they're gamers like.
Oh, that's really shitty.
That is really shitty.
Jeremy, you can't hide behind that avatar.
I know what it is.
Mauler, when is Captain Marvel
and Unbridled Rage coming?
I need it.
I'm going to need at least a week, possibly more,
which is awkward because it's like,
imagine I get it finished on April Fool's Day.
Like, I better delay it by a day at that point.
But yeah, it's on the way.
It's just, it's really long.
Longer than any of my other rage slash crazed videos.
Referencing the comics.
Go ahead.
It's longer than any of them?
Yes, but it's not longer than any of the critique videos.
Okay, okay, I got you.
It's an hour and a half as it stands.
Shouldn't be any longer or shorter than that.
Visual editing.
All and time, I was going to say both the same time.
That's what gets you.
Referencing the comics, Deb Poole,
like another commenter said,
went the way of Harley Quinn.
They were good, then became a meme.
Our video, have Alex Jones on to talk about the prequels.
Oh, dude.
I will gladly have Alex Jones on.
Alex, anytime you want to come on,
you are absolutely more than welcome.
Alex, be like the official fourth member of Efap, please.
We would pay you.
James would probably sell his house and art for it.
R-rated dark side movies,
bounty hunters, soldiers.
That's the message.
R-rated dark side movies, bounty.
I mean, yeah, I'm on board with that idea,
if that's what that's suggesting.
100%.
Sure.
The Sudetinland is what?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I don't know.
Sudetinland is what Hitler demanded
from Czechoslovakia in 1938
because Germans that lived there were being repressed.
All right.
Gotta spend money to buy things, twice.
Quick question, completely unrelated to anything.
Are clowns and mimes racist?
Yes.
100%.
Absolutely.
I'm not sure.
I'm not sure.
A lot of them do participate in white face.
But I think that's a cultural thing.
Very racist.
Very racist.
No, I don't think the intention's very important.
They're trying to celebrate white hood, so.
Yeah, but celebrating white hood is one thing.
As long as you're not denigrating black hood,
then that's its own thing.
Well, you can't celebrate white hood without denigrating.
So anyway, marry my Lena Dunham butter pie.
What?
Okay.
Wolf, why don't you like Spice and Wolf?
A lot of people claim Holo is their waifu.
Most people tell me it's a good anime
that tricks you into learning about economics.
I found it really boring.
I didn't like the main characters.
Holo was, she's attractive, and that's better.
I mean, I watched the whole thing.
I don't know.
There's something about it where I was like,
I don't like it,
but I gotta keep watching it until the end.
I couldn't tell you why,
but yeah, I don't know.
It's weird.
Yes, The Last Jedi disrupts enjoyment of Star Wars.
Just realize, Celeborn said,
seldom do orcs move in daylight under the sun.
I knew, I knew there was a line,
I thought it might be from Gandalf,
but I think Gandalf actually explained that
in the Hobbit movies,
but I knew there was an explanation for it
in The Lord of the Rings.
Cool.
Wolf knew it.
Who's Celeborn, by the way?
He's, yeah, I think it's Celeborn.
He's the dude that comes in with,
oh God, is he the elf that comes in with Galadriel,
or is he the one that meets them at Lothlorien
when they first get captured?
I can't remember.
Going to Google it.
Oh, he's, yeah, he's like Galadriel's,
I don't know.
Okay, that's what I thought.
Oh, it is, it has been, okay, yeah.
Yeah, yeah, okay.
I knew there was an explanation for it.
All children grow up,
they are monopolizing childhoods
and then acting like they are better
than the literal children that have grown up.
Make a studio for Logan slash Deadpool
and more type stuff.
I'm on board with that.
Yes, we don't ironically need less constant media
talking about politics and sex
when this stuff is getting tacked onto Star Wars
and everything else under the sun.
I don't know, what's with the hate for sex?
What's wrong with, yeah, I like sex.
Sex is fine.
I don't know.
Sex is fucking phenomenal.
It's neat.
It is super neat.
Well, you said you don't like John Wick 2.
Any chance you could elaborate on that?
I feel like I'll do it a disservice
if I try and just sum it up quickly.
But the easiest way to put it
is that I feel like it suffers immensely from sequelitis
where it tries its hardest to just recreate the first film
and it fails miserably in so many ways.
While still being, like I can completely understand
why someone would love the movie, it's fine,
but I hated it because it made me feel like
it was just trying to be the first one again.
Really forced how they recreate the scenario
of him having to kill loads of people.
I'm assuming everyone else here liked it.
I liked it a lot.
I enjoyed it.
I didn't really care one way or the other.
I'm good enough.
I guess I am the little centrist belch.
Rags, when is part three of the TFA critique coming?
Tomorrow.
I keep saying that, aren't you?
They're going to take you seriously one day.
Ask this on the high council.
What character interactions are you hoping for in endgame?
What was that question now?
What character interactions are you hoping for in endgame?
I heard, oh, yeah, they said they asked that on the high council.
I just said that Infinity War, I really wanted to,
I wanted interactions between Tony and Star-Lord.
I thought that would be great.
They had interactions in Infinity War,
but the best was Thor in Star-Lord,
which I never even imagined that being the most entertaining to me.
The characters meshed together so well.
I would have never believed that Thor and Rocket would work so well together.
Exactly, and so within game,
I'm just waiting to see what happens
because I don't really have any things set in mind of what I want to see
because I was so pleasantly surprised
with some of the interactions in Infinity War.
Yeah, I loved Tony and Doctor Strange.
Yeah, so I'm really like the Russos, man.
Those guys are awesome, so I'm really excited for it.
He also said, how long do you expect the dusted characters to stay dead?
I feel like all the dusted characters are coming back.
I do, but I don't think they're going to be in it that much.
No, I don't think they'll be in the film that much.
They'll probably be saved at the end of it.
Do you think Gamora will come back since she's like,
she wasn't going to do some magical shit with the stone,
like she's inside the stone or whatever?
I hope so.
They go back to the town.
It's always good.
I'd like to discuss Halo with Wolf on eFap.
It's from Kell of Scots.
OK, OK.
If you want to elaborate, I'm curious,
if is it because Wolf is is wrong man bad on something of Halo?
I wonder.
Seems like the future of the MCU will require, to a certain extent,
a Disney plus subscription to consume the canon TV shows.
Do you all plan to subscribe?
Not really, although if I probably I probably will subscribe.
Not for that particular reason.
But I mean, there's going to be a lot of content on there
I'm going to be interested in.
That's true.
The you know, like they do in a Scarlet Witch and a Loki TV show.
That's what from what I hear.
If I hear like they're amazing, like, OK, maybe I'll check them out.
Oh, I don't know.
Yeah, we'll see what's going on there.
It does make 10 percent for movies.
They rely on concessions for profit,
which is why their food costs so damn much.
An AMC employee told me thought I'd help.
Yeah, hopefully that helps a bit more sense.
And then from the rookie critic, he said, thanks for the answers, guys.
I'll be making some movie theater history
slash future videos as well as streaming versus discs
and difference between film and stage.
Only other people.
Well, you have a nice voice.
I want you to whisper how object how objectionably good civil war is
while you take a cold spoon to rub dollops of chocolate chip cookie dough
on my nipples. OK, that's reasonable.
Jesus Christ.
If I put my mom's credit card, name a better combo.
Oh, your mom's a nice lady.
You're all still streaming.
Well, this is turning out to be one of the longer length ones with one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven super chats away from the end.
We've nearly made it.
But yes, seven hours and 10 minutes is how long this has been.
First time watching this app, I'll be watching from now on.
This is great.
Oh, you've got a backlog, sir.
Oh, good.
Like, we get like a month of content.
In what way do you believe all the MCU can improve in the future?
Do you think SJW LGBT politics will lose its power through the fans speaking up?
Um.
Right now, I mean, it's so uncertain where they're going exactly
how much all this is going to affect how things will turn out,
because I think Far From Home looks like it's going to be pretty good.
That's coming up.
I did not like that trailer.
You didn't. But I didn't.
And I didn't really like Homecoming.
I do think Tom Holland is great as Peter Parker and Spider-Man.
I don't like the world he inhabit.
He's both.
So, well, you have to always separate because everybody says, oh, well,
Andrew Garfield was a good, you know, Spider-Man, but a terrible Peter Parker.
People say Toby was a great, you know, you know, they always break it down.
So I think Tom Holland is the best for both.
But I still prefer Toby because of his movies.
Yeah, no, I just did good shit because like me and Wolf got to talk to Jeff
a bit about like he really doesn't like Homecoming, right?
Yeah, and he or I don't.
I can't. He's a bigger Spider-Man guy than I am.
But I just don't like that world.
But I'm looking forward to Far From Home,
but the trailer just did not look good to me at all.
So but the future of the MCU,
I just I am worried about it in terms of the the identity politics
and stuff that that.
Bleed over into it after in game, and right now I'm treating in game.
No, no pun intended, I guess, or intended, but that will be the end
for me right now for what I'm looking forward to with the MCU.
I'm not trying to think about what comes next because I don't really care
based on the marketing and the build up to with with Captain Marvel
and how they've shoehorned this character into this world that has been
so delicately built over the last 10 years.
And it just feels like they're just trying to shove this character in there
to push forward an agenda, which pisses me off.
So yeah, and I'm pretty much at the point where I'm just like,
I'll wait and see, but I'm happy to sign off with the MCU
once the endgame is done and once Cap and Iman stories are done.
Because I'm concerned about how they're going to maintain my interest
with characters like Captain Marvel at the helm.
Yeah, I want like really just why watch?
What's the point watching these characters?
We're barely characters.
Uh, if my mom dies of cancer, this is James Moore, by the way,
that'll be a good day.
Well, speaking of that.
Why is she a bitch?
Jesus Christ, OK.
I don't know. Maybe she's a terrible.
Maybe she's a terrible person.
You know, it was abusive.
Yeah, I was that at all the what I was expecting
I subverted my expectations.
James, Jesus Christ.
Speaking of death, you jinxed it rags.
My grandpa died, learned on Saturday.
So yeah, good times.
Oh, geez.
Jesus, I'm so sorry, James.
Well, I didn't really jinx it if it already happened.
I mean, I mean, it's kind of a settled issue.
Oh, my God, I feel like a bad person.
No, you should.
I mean, just for every all the other reasons anyway, do it.
No, not your ex, Wolf.
You definitely don't approve.
Unless he was an asshole and you wanted him dead, like James's mom.
Oh, Jesus, I'm sorry, James.
I had a scary thought.
What if episode nine pulls a Terminator
Genesis and erases all previous movies?
Oh, good Lord.
So it erases TFA and TLJ, but it also takes the OT as well.
Um. Oh.
I mean, didn't you lose the good and the bad?
Yeah, we're back to score zero at that point.
I mean, the last shot, the last shot, I kind of already erased the original trilogy.
Yeah, like certainly thematically.
It's kind of that's the ongoing argument about Terminator Genesis.
Is it worth to have erased the films or is it worth to carry them on
and just depressingly degenerate all of the awesome characters?
Like, you know, maybe it is worth better to just.
I've never seen Terminator
Genesis, by the way, don't watch it.
I showed that to a friend who is like in love with Terminator.
Like he when he knocks on your front door,
he does it in the tune of the T2 theme.
You know, that doesn't don't don't.
Yeah. And I showed him that movie after I watched it with Mahler.
And as we watched it.
Yeah, I like literally watched his soul wither up and die as we were watching it.
And I felt like such a bad friend.
I'm a very long time to an air fan.
And that film is horrendous.
It's the T.L.J. of two minutes.
We really came to the conclusion that we think Genesis is worse than The Last Jedi.
Oh, yeah, really.
It's awful.
It's incredible.
You'd be surprised to watch it.
I want to watch it.
I want to watch it just because that's the obliterate all of the iconic characters.
They erase the the the fucking classic movies, literally erase them from the timeline.
And then they even make fun of them in the movie.
They like mock the old Terminator films.
And Cameron involved with this.
He promoted it, which is a fucking insult.
But he got paid.
I'm a fan of Terminator Salvation.
I don't know. I'm sure most I'm sure you guys don't like it.
I mean, I know someone to be a fan of that.
That's fine with me.
I liked it more than three.
Oh, yeah. I mean, that's like Terminator one really good.
Terminator two really incredible.
Three sucked. Salvation.
There was stuff to like, but it was just so weird.
And it screws a little with the timelines and the progress.
And it's like.
And I thought that Christian Bale was a really bad casting for John Connor.
I don't really get it.
Yeah, I don't know why.
I'm, you know, well, Bale is my favorite actor.
It was not his strongest performance.
Oh, yeah. I mean, I like him as an actor, but he put a lot of effort in, but I don't get it.
I don't know. He seemed he just seemed really robotic to me.
I mean, he had like a lot of his screaming.
Then Sam Worthington.
Hey, but we did get we did get the the fuck are you doing?
Oh, yeah. You know, the whole the whole breakdown,
which is one of the greatest moments ever.
I was just looking at the lights.
The cool man.
I love that. I love that rant.
But yeah, I mean, I don't I don't consider Terminator Salvation
a great movie or anything, but I enjoy it.
So yeah, I mean, I enjoyed watching it
because I binge watched all the movies and that was in Genesis.
But yeah, Genesis is definitely like one of the worst movies I've ever seen.
And somebody said in the chat, he didn't ask who has the trigger in Salvation.
Where's the trigger?
That's true. Where's the trigger missed opportunity?
E.M. Du Bois said you guys missed my first Super Chat.
I have got him in a big list.
I don't think I would have missed it, but I will control F look.
Sometimes that screen jumps around on me.
So I guess he said a kid's movie with a sex slave
who was sentenced to a humiliating death because she didn't want to be raped
by her monstrous master, is he referring to solo with that?
I have no idea.
I'm not sure, but OK.
That was that was the other one.
I think that's like a more grim look at how you could consider solo.
I'm not sure. Wanted Wolf to know that I finally watched The Grey.
Thanks to his recommendation and loved it.
Also started Soma thanks to Muller.
And I like it so far.
Rag is nothing life changing yet, but I still.
Oh, well, you know, we'll get around to it.
I'm glad you like The Grey. It's one of my favorites.
Yeah. And if you don't like Soma, you're a bad person. That's true.
Rags, quick question is a fellow eagle.
What do you think about the BSA becoming the Scouts of America?
I think that depends on the execution and fixing logistical issues.
Yeah, honestly, watch PSA Stitches video on it and it'll clear up a lot of things.
I agree with Wolf in many ways, but I would argue the Halo 4 story
is overrated by the Halo community and is bad and has law breaks in its own right.
Yeah, I mean, you're not going to hear me defending a lot of Halo 4.
It retcons the forerunners, which is really fucking stupid.
There's some weird plot shit it does in that movie game
that is just I can't even imagine what drugs they were on when writing it.
I still think it's like largely good,
but we're talking like seven out of ten at the absolute jolly good first attempt.
Yeah. And then Halo 5 came around and like, oh, my God.
And then you saw the second attempt.
Yeah. And then I was like, what happened?
So what is your if you played Half-Life 2?
Half-Life like a little bit of it a long time ago.
It's fine.
Oh, it's my favorite game, my favorite game.
I love Half-Life 2. Half-Life 1 is OK, but Half-Life 2 just takes it to another level.
It's fine.
It's like considered one of the most classic games in existence, right?
Get into a little Hall of Fame along with stuff like Doom and Quake and other things.
Yeah, Half-Life 3 will never happen.
Unfortunately.
Yeah, now it's not more of a meme than anything like at this point,
if you if you make a Half-Life 3, you're destroying a meme.
And so it's we don't want to do that. So.
Be crazy if they did.
Half-Life 3 confirmed.
Everybody say Half-Life 3 confirmed because I brought up Half-Life 2.
And at least Gaven's giving us Halo.
He redeemed himself a little bit, I guess.
Uh, you missed my faction.
Select meme on Twitter.
If you resend it, I will look at it.
I might have missed it.
The stream is dying.
We need 12 cc of Super Chat stat.
Oh, don't do that.
Don't do that.
Fucking die.
Tell the strain the host are about to knock off.
I still haven't told my story yet.
How long have you been streaming?
Because it cuts off after eight hours.
We're close to that 721.
So I'll try and speed this up.
There's four left right now.
Well, I listened to y'all since four at work.
And thanks for the stream.
We wanted to do a kind of open discussion thing.
But I don't know.
Like on your own channel.
Obviously, pursue that shit.
Great stuff.
I open the dream.
I opened my drawer and found an old can of cashews.
Today is a good day.
Yeah, sounds pretty good.
That is from James Ball.
Yeah, my mom is a bad don't feel bad.
I've taken a lot better than most of my family, probably because of the podcast.
So thanks for helping.
All right.
We were able to help out, man.
Hope you hope you're doing OK.
Because it sounds sad.
Tisms.
I guys, I don't know if you address this already, but have you or will you do a
response to just rights, video and objectivity?
We will.
We're just saving the video, I guess, for a for a guest that it sort of suits.
Because we're in no rush.
It's a pretty hilarious video.
It would be useful if we had a guest who knew the works of Ant and Hume, I think
of the two people he covers.
Manuel Cant and David Hume.
What about Theo?
Theo reads history.
Maybe Theo knows the possible.
Yeah, who was on the.
And then the final one from Titus Mola to all.
Which one episode is your favorite?
I'm going to have to say this one because I'm here.
A fair choice.
Mine.
I don't know.
Mine.
I really like the seven hour one we did with Voxus.
Think then.
A couple of awkward choices now because of what.
Yeah, because of.
Yeah.
The ones that I would have chosen, I don't know if I can choose anymore.
How's that?
It's actually a difficult question because, like, someone who used to regularly sort
of feature became a crazy person.
He lost his mind and threatened to murder people and we had to distance ourselves
from him. So.
Yeah, that off off off camp or off online.
Yeah.
And this is the thing, like, there's so many funny memes that came out of it.
So it's just kind of like, oh, well, so are they are they as funny now?
It's like, I don't know, kind of awkward now.
Look back in it.
So sad.
It's like it's like watching the Cosby show now.
Yeah.
You're like.
I really did like the one we did with Doomcar covering Major Lee.
That was a lot of fun from what I remember.
Well, Doomcock.
He was he was having fun with Major Lee.
He's as you can imagine.
Yeah, it's tough.
I really do like pretty much all the episodes.
I know it's like cheesy response, but it's just like, I have fun with all these
things. Yeah, they're all kind of special in their own way.
Much like us.
Oh, I really like the aliens.
Colonial.
Yeah, it's pretty good parts in there.
Yeah, I like the part where I got shat out of the machine.
So fucking funny.
The rags like tried to turn on your flashlight.
You fired a grenade.
The first 10 seconds of the game, and so it's down.
I haven't even thought of that.
It's so dark in here.
Jesus, guys, I'm still 10 hours behind.
You guys have another eight hour one.
I'll never catch up at this point.
That's a good thing.
So that's the last one of them.
And just before Wolf, I can continue with his story.
I'm just going to bring up a couple more things I have on Twitter.
The people to see then will be nearing the completion.
I don't know why you stayed this long, Jeremy, but good for you.
So now I've enjoyed it.
I've enjoyed it.
And so I was happy to appear.
I appreciate the invite.
So I've had a lot of fun.
No, you're just like the rest of us.
No, I have literally.
I told Mueller this the other day on private messages.
I don't know what we're talking about.
They basically said I have no time to play video games.
We're talking about how much YouTube takes away from our day to day life.
Oh, man.
So, yeah, I have no life.
So it's so hard for me to make videos and play through Exodus,
but I got to replay the whole game again.
And then I wanted to do all the other stuff I do.
It's real tough to space it all out.
Is it is true fans, Quinto?
It's going to be toxic, rude.
Overwhelmed CLJ defenders or is a verbal terrorists,
special unit, long men, racial ability,
racial ability, rhino milk artillery.
Mysterious race of the ability to change facts to support their arguments.
Special unit, soy boy, racial ability, Trump brats.
These facts and the logic to prove once and for all the quality of TLJ
special unit tax on the shirtless racial ability.
Log. That's perfect.
Then this one, I call it early on the Twitter if I meant to put it on earlier.
So this is when right in the beginning, when Rags said about dumb,
someone actually drew that and cut it out.
I know what I know what you mean by I know what dumb means.
It's actually hard to read.
It's I know what you mean.
Dumb means it's like, wait, what?
He's a drawn upside down question box.
I think I think it captures the confusion.
Then this is a this is a high detail imagination of Wolf coming after Jay.
And that about.
This is pretty cool.
Oxygen.
Oh, God.
Toxic, you're like bark.
I'm seriously thinking about getting some T-shirts made.
The toxic.
Sure, go.
This is the last one, which is sort of like a.
Executive producer.
Oh, I think that's from the Witcher three.
Yeah, or a Skyrim.
Is that a?
I don't know, actually.
It's hard to tell.
Is it not one of the crone craven?
I thought it was one of the crones from the Witcher three, but I don't know.
It doesn't look like this.
No, it's one of the harpies, isn't it?
Isn't that a harpy from Skyrim?
I don't know.
Hagraven.
It's a hagraven.
So from Skyrim.
Yeah, Skyrim, there are hagravens.
Yeah. Oh, OK.
I haven't played that game in years, so I haven't played in a while.
No, Jeremy Osteen.
I've lost all faith in the fandom menace.
Jeremy Osteen.
Joel Osteen is this this Christian preacher.
Oh, yeah. And he's he's very, very charismatic and he makes a lot of money.
So whenever I get a lot of super chats, I start I start doing my Jeremy Osteen.
And I'm like, praise Jesus, praise Jesus.
Bring the money down.
All of your sins will go away.
You just got to keep throwing the super chats.
Why me? Pay for my.
So I give my.
Oh, so Pagan God X and I'm just surprised Pagan God X didn't say something.
I'm actually upset you didn't say something offensive towards me
because that's usually how we roll.
But that's fine.
Go fuck yourself if you can't do that, though.
Wolf, would you like to tell the story?
Oh, yes, it's a it's a fun story.
So I have a friend who I've been trying to get into more movies.
And we watch movies every now and again.
And to put this into perspective,
his family was like really super religious, even more than mine.
So they wouldn't let him watch things like Harry Potter
because of witchcraft and all that.
So I've been trying to like reacquaint him with the rest of the world.
And we started getting into Westerns
and he really likes them.
And I wanted I didn't think it would work,
but I found out the good way that it did.
I wanted to know if he knew what Brokeback Mountain was.
And I asked him, like, so if you ever heard of Brokeback Mountain?
And he was like, no, what's that?
And I was like, oh, this is going to be fun.
And I was like, it's a movie about cowboys.
And he was like, oh, it's it's another Western.
And I was like, yeah, it sure is.
So we watched it.
And at first he was like, all right, this is kind of interesting.
And then we go through the movie and it keeps going on.
And he's like, oh, oh.
And we finished the movie.
And he's like, it wasn't what I was expecting.
And I was like, I bet it wasn't.
He enjoyed it.
I don't know.
He didn't talk to me for a few days after.
He had to reexamine his sexuality.
Pretty nice.
It was it was funny.
I didn't expect that would work.
But as soon as I had the chance, I took it.
Yeah, we're pretty much in the position of being able to wrap up.
But I think first of all, like to go ahead and give chat
a little little brief view of what your channel is and why they should.
Well, I'm an arrogant asshole and I do like to fight
and I will respond to you in the comments if you talk shit to me.
So if you're sensitive, don't worry about it.
But if you're not, if you're if you're like these guys, no, but seriously.
Yeah, I mean, unlike Wolf, I'm going to educate you guys on my channel
because he didn't know anything about it, apparently, but it's not just me.
Geeks and Gamers is, you know, basically a spin off of my website,
GeeksAndGamers.com, and we were kind of covering just a lot of the basically
that click bait the fuck out of YouTube is what I do.
I go for click bait topics.
I'm a whore for your views, and I'll do anything besides take my clothes off.
But if you pay enough money, I'll do that, too.
But really, we are we are moving into more of a I've got a I've got a couple
of video game guys that have brought on to the team that we're going to start
focusing on a lot of more of the topical video game news.
We cover Star Wars and we focus on like the identity politics and the controversy.
The entertainment industry right now.
And that's what we do.
We have some really good live streams.
We have a really good team over there.
So if you're interested, please subscribe to Geeks and Gamers.
And if you can deal with my sarcasm, that is.
And check out GeeksAndGamers.com, which is my website, which I have a full team.
I have an editor editorial staff.
We're working on putting some forums on the website as of right now.
And we have a lot of moving parts to Geeks and Gamers, though.
So yeah, I appreciate you guys having me on.
Yeah, I'm impressed you survived.
Is this like what we've just done is like the length of three podcasts, pretty much.
No, well, I was I prepared myself.
I mean, like I said,
how I did a 24 hour livestream on January 1st of this year,
and it was fucking tough, but we raised a lot of money for charity.
Don't tell anybody about that, because I am a misogynistic asshole.
And I hate everybody, according to the Internet.
So anyway, what they'll say is you did that to try and prevent people from calling me.
Yeah, yeah.
So but but yeah, so I was prepared for it to at least go at least four or five hours.
But I mean, hell, we made it almost eight.
So but it's been a lot of fun.
I've had a lot of fun with you guys.
So objectively, this wasn't very good, but it was a lot of fun.
So the roof subjectively, that's all about it.
We'll take it.
Well, I'm glad everything turned out well between us, Jeremy.
I am, too.
I am glad we could explore that video with you, because that was a really substantive video
that allowed us to learn a lot about our toxicity, our toxic brood.
I think we can all really evolve from it.
You know, again, be nice to that guy.
What I'm saying.
So it's like, yeah, it's like, no, no, no, seriously.
If you don't, I'm expecting you to contact me on Twitter.
Like, why did you attack me?
Oh, yeah, it will.
And it will be it will be presented in that way.
You attacked me.
Imagine you said like you guys fell for it.
It was a joke video.
I'd be like, oh, my God.
Oh, yeah, ever.
That would be the greatest thing ever.
Real quick.
Yeah, I do.
I do sincerely mean it, though.
Like I said, I get called out just like you guys.
I get called out from my people all the fucking time.
Whether I don't care how big their channel is, how small.
It doesn't matter to me.
But when it was when it was wolf, I was like, fuck,
I really don't want to respond to him and get mixed up with him a mall or fuck.
And I am glad it turned out OK.
But I definitely had to respond.
And I'm glad that it all worked out because, you know, you it just seems
like you guys have the same type of mentality as me.
You're not super fucking sensitive.
You like people that talk shit.
You like sarcastic assholes.
That's me.
So it's all in good fun, buddy.
Jay just said you guys fell for my black path of it.
Oh, man.
Oh, he got us.
Um, he disabled the likes and dislikes on that video.
Oh, well.
He's going to be mad at me, isn't he?
Well, I guess we can waste all your comments.
Yeah, comments are going to be nice.
I hope the one about your wife's boyfriend stays up.
I'm fixing to go look and see it was still there.
What's the Star Wars?
Star Wars, the Phantom Menace.
Is that what it was?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Be nice to him, guys.
Well, I mean, of course, it's going to show for me because it's my comment.
So I don't know.
Oh, well, I just refresh and it's still there.
So OK.
Yeah, it's still there.
But yeah.
Anybody anybody want to say anything before we.
I will I'll save it for I'll save the thing I was going to show you
for next day, because I think it's quality stuff.
Uh, OK.
Yeah, cool.
Um, there is there's there's two more super chats.
Bitch, you will end the stream when I say you can end the stream.
Right.
And the following.
What is you're still going?
He's too soon.
Um, yeah, we're good to go.
Like I said, if anyone else wants anything other than, of course,
thank you to both Jeff and Jeremy.
Wonderful.
Jeremy's better because he stayed longer.
I think I don't know if world class is still live streaming.
But when we in hop on over to world class bullshitters.
Yeah.
Oh, my God.
If we out streamed even them.
Well, you know that we need to stop people have lives.
You're like, oh, no, yeah, OK.
Yeah, that's about it.
So thank you all for watching.
Thank you for the extremely kind donations, the incredibly creative
memes, and just for the track and watching our channels.
And it's all really good stuff.
Appreciate it.
And we will be back at some point.
I will never promise a date because we will never stick.
If Apple.
The toxic brooch, toxic brooch, every frame, a toxic brooch.
John Adams foresaw it in the Palantir long ago.
The episode 30 of the FAP will come next week.
Super chat.
No, don't go.
This is all I have.
Good night, everybody.
And goodbye.
Good luck.
Ciao.
