Welcome to, wait, yeah, welcome to ESF 17, 17s.
I'm guessing so, unless you're just talking to yourself.
Or letting us know.
I didn't even know you guys were real for sure.
I was just assuming that.
We might not be, we are just voices.
Neat.
Oh, hey man.
Welcome to preaching to the choir ministries.
I'm your host, G man.
I'm gonna win cause I always go for the follow up joke
and you were like, shit.
Well, I'd understand that preaching to the choir
has like a euphemism that has a meaning.
Yeah, it's because G man is an idiot.
I was trying to think of something stupid to say
but it's like, he's just so dumb.
I can't even think of anything that low.
Yeah, he's just that dumb.
Yeah, we're preaching to the choir ministries.
We're trying to reach the choir ministries.
He's also a very creative name.
And you guys are just, you're just hating.
Just hating.
You know, I've got this bottle of water and it uses, it has ounces and milliliters.
So it's a big one.
It's got 1400 milliliters.
That was a fascinating story.
No, no, no, no, no, because if you told me, if you said rags, I need you to go outside
with your old doggy feet and run for two kilometers and then come back.
I would say no, but I'd also say, I don't know how far that is, right?
But if you said I need you to drink 500 milliliters of water, I'd be like, yeah, I have a pretty
good idea how much that is.
People are still doing the ghost of rhino milk in the chat.
That meme is so just infinitely popular, we'll never really understand why.
Because rhino milk is a sufficient reason for Jesus.
I mean, because the question the whole time was whether or not you can milk a rhino and
now it's like, can you milk a spectral rhino?
Is that?
I mean, you can milk a rhino.
I mean, it's just a horrible idea.
You squeeze the tits.
What about a spectral rhino?
Well you, you, the ethereal tits, you, I don't know, is, do they have like a, they have machines
that pick up EVP, electronic voice phenomenons, right?
Are you high by the way?
No, no, he's drunk.
Oh, is he?
I'm the one that gets high.
No, I'm not drunk.
I can be.
All right.
Subnet piss test.
Listen, eFap has drug tests.
We have to make sure everybody's clean.
That's how it works.
Oh, I'm not clean.
I'm not clean.
I'm only, I'm only high on life.
Also I just woke up.
Neato.
Butterfly ghost rhino milk.
Just keep it going.
Anyway, I should probably like, you know, be like, hello, welcome.
This is amazing.
Everything's great.
Uh, you go.
Oh, hello.
Hello.
Individual.
Well, uh, our wonderful guest today, uh, I mean, outside of, you know, rags and wolf
here.
Yay.
I'm here.
Whatever.
We got logic today.
Say hello.
You.
Hello.
She's got 3d glasses.
Happy to be here.
Christmas theme is avatar.
What a piece of shit.
Oh my God.
Yeah.
If he's wearing 3d glasses and everything in the world looks 3d now, God, even I spent
like two and a half minutes in Photoshop.
I just realized it's like rags got the shades.
He's got 3d glasses.
I've got like these, these lenses in the, uh, in the gas mask wolf.
What's going on, man?
I can change that.
I have one.
Well, no logic doesn't have a Christmas themed.
I don't know who's changing that.
Here we go.
Right off the red nose, rags, sheep and, and, and those two just fucking were lazy pieces
of shit.
And they just slapped Santa hats.
We had to go back to the better.
There we go.
Beautiful.
Yeah.
Now we match.
Merry Christmas.
Me and wolf don't have our names on their hats.
Yeah.
Mine's better.
I win enough.
It's still showing your normal.
Hold on.
Yeah.
It still shows your normal one for me.
Well, load up the stream.
You'll be able to see it right there.
Also wonderful new piece of art we got for, for the person who, who, who decided that
our art was just not, not sufficient enough.
They were like, check out the new Efap.
I mean, how, how to make Efap a little bit more serious?
Like, yeah, this is slick.
This is a thing to be taken seriously.
It's like confusing to people.
So like, what do you mean?
You ain't big on YouTube till they draw your characters fucking, um, well, rags.
We have that.
So I guess, I guess we're the legit ones.
Yeah.
Boy.
Um, so anyway, to catch up, there's a couple of things I don't see it.
We got, um, in the, in the last two, there was a simultaneous thing that was said and
it's worth clarifying.
So like at one point I said that, um, you know, like making sequels to stuff and you
stay within your own rules, it can promote creativity.
Like the idea that you, uh, you're like, shit, I want to make this thing happen, but in the
rules of the universe, this can't.
So I got to do X, Y, and Z to make it happen.
It's like, that's creative.
But then we also said the like false diversity is, is an arbitrary rule that'll stiny creativity
and people will like, isn't that contradictive?
And it's just like, I suppose the, the clarification would be the difference between external and
internal limitations.
So like someone's just saying, you can't do this for no reason is a little bit different
than having to be, oh my God, the rhino milk memes.
We are having some, having someone impose a completely unnecessary rule.
I mean, you could say it's creative if you, if you have a good thing, despite something
else, like we had to creatively work around this ridiculous rule, this self-imposed restriction
we put on ourselves for no reason.
Should we like introduce logic to the rhino milk memes?
Oh, well, to the, to the, to the lore, so it's a quick one.
Deep in the heart of Africa, there's an impenetrable forest.
We're an impenetrable forest and even more impenetrable force field lies the quote unquote
peaceful nation of Wakanda.
Now Wakanda inside of what they have, they have farms where they farm rhinos.
The reasons that are yet to be explained or justified, but they do have rhino farms and
it was posited.
Hold on.
You said this was through the force field though.
Yes.
Through the force field.
They don't have farms inside the force field.
The farmers say outside the force field.
No, they stop breaking the law.
Because if people, if they were outside the force field and the white people noticed
the rhino farms, they'd start to ask questions.
Oh, so it's only the rhino farmers are in.
I think they actually might have them both inside out or even if it is just outside,
this is still a point.
How annoying would it be if you had like property and the force field ran through your property?
I feel like there's just a, just, there's just half a house sitting out in the middle
of nowhere.
I have to get a, I have to get a tourism permit every time I use the loo.
You have to go with a drink.
Anyway, they farm rhinos.
They have rhino farms.
I feel like we got off track like this.
But someone said, maybe they milk the rhinos.
Maybe they farm the rhinos for the purposes of milking them.
Maybe just maybe they use the rhinos for their ivory.
All their rhino meat.
And we checked out all of those and they, they did, uh, not, not one of them is rhinos.
Rhinos neither produce ivory nor do they, um, no, nor would it make sense to raise rhino
for its meat, nor would it make sense to use their milk as it is, um, mostly water.
And so we, useless fucking milk useless fucking animal, really.
Well, they're pretty good.
We should just kill them all.
They, they, they were used for war.
That makes total sense.
You ride your rhinos in the battle, your war rhinos.
And they were mysteriously, well, not mysteriously, they just weren't used for infinity war because
according to the film's logic, they're still pissed, uh, uh, uh, Black Panther.
So they're not, that faction's not going to come into the fight, you know, that saves
the earth.
It's like, Oh, okay.
But in reality, it's just that the CGI budget wasn't, wasn't enough.
I guess the faction with the war rhinos not have like all the fancy vehicles.
No, this is the thing that we don't understand they do, but like, okay.
So at the same time, you have this extremely technologically advanced space age civilization.
You also have people like riding on top of rhinos in the battle squalor.
They had to take some budget cuts because they can't afford ships with those blanket
shields.
I mean, you have, it's almost like when we're watching this video about Wakanda, we were,
we were noticing that it was almost like a two tier society where you had the really
rich privilege class that was living with the spaceships and the big, I don't want to
call them ivory towers, but there you go.
And, and then you had the poor people who were poor and lives in the dirt.
It makes sense.
Farmers who don't get to live inside the force field, the non rhino farmers, they're
the non, we're going to form a farmer caravan and come up to the force field.
And then, and then Wakanda and President Trump is going to be like, fuck off.
They're like, we need a wall is like, we already have a force field.
And this is not political.
This is just a direct comparison of the fact that there's a fucking wall, literal wall
in the middle of Wakanda.
Well, look, a wall would work better than the force field because the force field didn't
keep out the aliens.
Just saying.
That's true.
Yeah.
If the caravan, if the people in the caravan just struggled hard enough, like 50% of them
would die being chopped in half by the force field, but the others would get through.
But yeah, ultimately that's what birthed the rhino milk, you know, um, and that's an
important part of culture for this, this stream rhino milk.
So now, you know, the, you know, the, the deep efap lore.
And yeah, that's just page one of the law.
There's so much more, you know, to appreciate because it's not at all ridiculous
retardation.
It's actually like super in depth and intelligent.
Don't let anyone tell you different.
Yeah.
We got the holy book of the fap.
So, um, Eric Jackson has denied the invite to efap several times.
I'm afraid people, we did, we did try.
Yeah.
He said there was any other thing that was going to happen.
He, uh, he said he would actually be willing to have a discussion with wolf sometime.
Maybe they can set that up, but he is not willing to talk to me in rags as we are
the most, some of the most toxic people on this platform is what he said.
For some reason, which is not true at all.
I'm very nice.
I am by far in a way, the most toxic person in this call.
So I don't know how in the world we got.
I don't know how he got me to be the reason.
Um, and I am bisexual.
He's I am too.
So some people got into his discord who are friendly to efap and they, they said
screenshots of like the shit that they, the way they speak there, which is
embarrassing.
It's like, uh, the way they speak.
So, so like Eric puts up an argument on Twitter, someone counters it and then
they go, Eric wins because they responded.
Oh, like they talk to each other.
Like that's how everything works.
They're just like, Eric does no wrong.
And every time someone replies to him, they fall in for bait.
So, you know, like, even if I respond to him being like rags of all those toxic
YouTubers, like, ha ha, you fell for it.
It's like, wait, so do you not think that it's like, no, I think that, like,
so they think that Eric taxon is a master baiter.
The best of the betas master.
Thought that took him a while.
Oh, master.
Oh yeah.
That's the thing I do.
Ah, ha ha ha.
Um, but yeah, also he has, he has emotes of Wolf's avatar in his server too.
Yeah.
Like four of them.
And I thought that was really weird.
And that is strange.
He says, I'm not Jared.
Come on.
He like, he's got a surprisingly positive disposition towards Wolf.
And I, I have a small theory that I think he's attracted to you because I'm sorry.
It's just, this is how it works.
I think because there's no way someone comes away from me if I'm going, yeah.
Bullard rags.
They're the ones that most like controversial in any way.
Okay.
Um, Mahler, after you sent me that picture, I don't want you to ever say those words.
Eric is attracted to me again.
Um, frankly, I already can never forgive you for what you sent me
involving Eric because I don't know what he may have told his audience in any way,
shape, or form or if they've even seen that you've ever recovered him.
But some of his audience think that we came after him for being, uh, autistic
and for being gay, which, uh, Oh yeah, that makes sense.
That's going to say, first of all, we never even use the word autistic as
far as I know in the coverage.
But secondly, it wouldn't really make sense for rags and wolf to come
after somebody for being gay.
That's, uh, no, that's why that's the, that's the only reason I would go
after someone if, if they're gay.
Cause I just, I can't stand the gays.
You got, you've got a problem with the gate.
Yeah.
He's, he's not coming on folks.
I'm so sorry.
We tried.
Um, what's interesting is that the day after we did the stream on why
force diversity is bad, there was that tweet about how the, um, the captain
Jan Jordan froze during the Parkland shooting officer said she was it over
her head now Sheriff Israel admits captain Jordan was recommended based
on diversity and not qualifications.
Back of leadership led to kids dying all because they wanted diversity.
Oh, I wonder what I could say about that.
I want to say, well, well, that's the thing that's what's interesting.
We didn't get into force diversity outside of cinema.
We didn't talk about, well, do you want like a qualified doctor to operate on you?
Or do you want the diversity hire doctor to operate on you?
And remember, I think it was the big bank of America or something leaks.
One of those really big, like, um, identity breach things that happened in their
security, their online security advisor was a diversity hire some chick that they
hired cause she was a woman.
So, I mean, I forget which one it was specifically.
It was a couple of years ago.
Well, you see, Eric would never respond to this, just like he refused to show the
vast majority of my video and the vast majority of my arguments, because this
would defeat his point.
You can still have a module podcast as long as me and rags out there though.
I don't want to do that.
I even offered that we'd say silent by the way.
And he was like, Nope.
I was like, okay.
Um, oh yeah, the other thing I wanted to mention was, uh, people have been telling
me like your comments been removed from Joseph Anderson's video and the video on
cinema wins.
Don't worry about it.
Looks like comments of mine get removed just because they reported now rather than
the actual creators getting rid of them.
It's going to happen on my videos one day, probably with someone who leaves a comment
and just gets hit with spam and then I lose it.
And I'm just like, Oh shit.
And it's almost like maulage of these comments.
It's like, don't worry about it.
Do automatically assume that it is because of YouTube rather than the creator at this
point, because it seems like comments getting removed is becoming very, very common.
But, uh, if you get like definitive proof, which is pretty hard to get, then sure.
You know, but, um, yeah, it's a little bit disheartening for me to even comment on
videos that I disagree with anymore.
Cause it's just like, well, I was just going to get reported and then, you know,
muted.
So that's fun.
You don't get your comment reported on eFap.
Nope.
Just another reason why nine out of 10 dentists nationwide recommend eFap.
What did we do today?
The most efficient enamel cleanser.
Um, and yeah, that's about, that's about it.
Um, we're, we're pretty much good to go on, on checking out this, this video,
which everybody went crazy about because the context is you have cinema sins who
rips into every movie equally.
Well, I say equally.
I mean, he just, he'll make every movie like, man, I hate it.
Um, and then you've got the inverse, which is someone who's done every
movie and what's great about it.
And you'd be like, Oh, so it's like a positivity channel in a way.
And it's like, yes.
Is that in concept better or worse or the same as cinema sins?
What, what's your guys' perspective on that?
Sorry.
Cause I'm really sorry.
Could you repeat the question?
Does it matter?
Like, whoa, whoa.
Who cares which one's better?
No, it's not about that.
It's about, uh, like methodology.
So like the idea of the, I was going to say, everyone hates cinema sins.
It's like, since it's overly negative and he misrepresents films.
It's like, so what about overly positive?
Is that, is that positivity makes me feel a little queasy in general.
But I would say trying to look at this objectively, they both suck balls.
I was going to say they'll fall prey to the exact same issues.
If they're just on either side of the spectrum.
So if it's bad to be too negative, it is also bad to be too positive.
This is someone in the whole thing.
Someone in the chat said, since in sweats nervously.
I mean, he's, he's doing what we're doing technically.
Just again, the reverse.
So he's, he's pointing out how cinema sins is wrong.
Will be today responding to cinema wins, not saying he's wrong.
So someone in the chat said, the only time I care about positivity is with HIV.
That's true.
You should, you should care.
You should definitely care.
You should care.
But yeah, the, the idea is that like, don't go out, don't, don't be mean to
cinema wins because he's being nice.
It makes sense to be mean to cinema sins because he's being mean.
Like what, what do you reckon about that?
I don't think cinema, I don't think cinema sins is mean.
He's mean to films.
He's mean to films.
Well, films don't have feelings.
That's like your opinion, man.
Did you just assume that film's emotional state?
You big it.
I did.
I can't be friends with you anymore.
I can't believe this, but you know, uh, each of us has seen the last Jedi.
Each of us think it's a masterpiece.
I think it's an amazing piece of work.
There should be studies and we're willing to hear out any and all arguments.
I'm pretty sure this will do a hell of a lot better than, um, like major Lee or
Jonathan McIntosh, but we'll, we'll have to see who knows what kind of stuff we're
going to get.
So is everybody ready to check out everything great about Star Wars?
You think this will be the video to prove to us that the last Jedi was actually not
a terrible movie?
Of course not.
But you know, we'll try and get it changes our mind even a little bit.
Let's see how bigoted we are and that we will refuse to acknowledge it.
Yeah.
Don't judge her in advance.
You have to actually hear the arguments first.
Yeah.
Don't judge shit.
That was loud.
Oh, he only played one second.
At least that gives you a prep.
Uh, yeah.
So, uh, here we go.
I immediately lose the whole movie played in my head.
Oh, I hear that music.
I hear like eight movies at once.
The other thing about this, I always found it just saying is that he's legitimately a
complete ripoff, just does the reverse as any stole the, the delivery as well.
When do you think that he'd want to try and do his own thing at this point?
No, because you have to steal what's popular and stay with it.
I mean, isn't, isn't the point to be sort of the positive, uh, already.
So you kind of want to stick to the style of the thing.
You're parodying, right?
You want it to be identifiable that you're trying to, I'm sure he considers himself
legitimate though parody anymore.
Yeah.
Like I'm pretty sure he considers himself his own thing at this point.
He's, he's, he's really popular.
He's like cinema wins is not an arbitrary, uh, channel.
That's just, um, it's like a really, okay.
Well, let me keep track of these, these like, he's at 1 million subscribers.
That's not exactly small.
Well, I didn't, I never heard about Jello apocalypse until he made that retarded
vote video, so, and he's got like 1.4 million.
How many subscribers does cinema sins have?
Oh, um, well, cause I'm not one of them.
So I don't, I don't keep track of them.
So basically this guy is like well past 10% of cinema sins.
Okay.
Yeah, no, you're right.
You're right.
He should probably try to differentiate himself.
I just thought you would want to, that's all.
Well, I would, if it was me, I don't want to kind of do my own thing, sort of.
I'm not saying he has to, I'm just saying like, yeah, it's a little bit, um, it's a
little bit silly at this point.
If you have a million subs.
Yeah.
Anyway, I started the force awake and video awakened shit.
Sorry.
Hang on.
I started the force.
The first sentence and you fucked up.
That's not the name of the movie.
It's called the force awakens.
Maybe he thought it was a cost.
Yes.
Like rags is rags is you force awaken, but he says I'll be objective
and not a star Wars fan boy.
Well, you said that in the force awakens one, apparently.
Um, okay.
Oh yeah.
That's a silly thing to do.
He said it was, that was intentionally meant to be immediately dismissed.
Why?
Isn't it a bit redundant to say some in this mode, whatever fine.
I don't, why would that be dismissed though?
Like that's a good thing.
He think I'm going to go out on a limb and assume that he thinks you can't be
objective about films if he feels that way, then that sentence to him is a
funny thing to say, isn't it?
I guess, but it's a good thing.
I want reviewers to be objective.
Or to try at least try, you know, be as close as they can be objective and not
a star Wars fan boy disclaimer that was intentionally meant to be immediately
dismissed.
I'm not even going to bother this time.
Some of you unsubbed when this hit your inbox.
That's fine.
Oh, fucking who boo.
Fucking who some of you unsubbed with this hit your inbox.
That's side.
Oh, well, but the other 1.1, whatever million of you stayed.
So I guess it's okay.
Yeah.
I, you know, whatever that's fine.
Well, let's, let's do something real quick before we even get into this.
Let's take a poll.
The last Jedi love it or hate it.
Hate it.
Just hate it.
Well, actually this might be differentiating from cinema sins.
Do they start off making excuses?
Oh, well, I mean, I thought it was, this plays into, I think, um, you're
supposed to vote on the poll and then by the end of the video, I guess you vote
again and you see how your vote vote has changed to see if he's changed your mind.
So obviously we'll, uh, we will, we will let you know if that happens, but
I voted in my heart.
I have a feeling he's actually invested in this film as opposed to just
doing a cinema sins reverse, you know, or a TRO video where he didn't watch the
video, the movie at all, and still made a video about it.
Right.
If he didn't watch the last Jedi, didn't he say that in his video?
I don't remember.
It was a fucking, it's a blur.
Looking back a 12 hour blur, it was, it was, it seriously, it was 11 hours.
And then we had the discussion with him.
So that's like 12 hours.
Yeah, no, I think the genuine total comes to 16 for the entire, the
adventure of me and Rags versus went to not zero.
Yeah.
Because the first one was six hours of five hours and four hours.
Right.
Well, yeah, but I don't know if the third one, the four hours of the
third one was all like, cause it, cause we started off talking with him about it.
But then we went to something else.
We went to another video.
I think it was like an hour and a half with him on that.
So yeah, it comes to the point is we talk about this shit way too goddamn much.
Yes.
And people want more.
So people, it's never enough.
They're never satisfied.
Anyway, let's hear an argument below that.
You'll see a second poll with some different options.
This is one of those points that only works if things go my way.
But number one, I'm really curious.
And number two, I really needed to know how many Russian
hackers, it's funny.
You guys have cold hearts, Russian.
Just kidding.
I know that there are people who genuinely don't like this movie, but
you've clicked on this.
So let's get, you see the thing.
He thinks that because I'm a Russian hacker bot.
So, um, I am very Russian hacker.
He thinks that I wasted my time tweeting at Ryan Johnson, but I was, I was
obviously far more concerned with rigging the presidential election.
Must win.
How could a bot possibly do two things at once?
Big, I go way bigger than movies.
That's pretty funny though.
The idea that it's like, could they have rigged the election?
It's like, well, I lost it.
It's like, could they have left bad reviews for the last Jedi?
You're like, what?
Build the wall.
Also leave bad reviews for the last, it just seems like such as, because
have you guys heard the argument?
Some people are like, yeah, because it helps destabilize American culture
to foster warfare between media.
And it's like, what?
See you then.
It's the, the Trump supporters who are telling you to divorce people
because they don't like Trump.
Yeah, that's us.
That's our side.
Divorce the brown people.
People are literally arguing that Russian bots were used to
downvote the last Jedi to provide the Russians love Star Wars.
I got to keep up better with the news on this, on this, uh, you know,
key issue of our day, the last Jedi Spanish to do that.
Logic is here.
Cool.
But why?
I don't know.
I don't know either.
I don't even know what we're talking about.
This is about Russians.
This is about movies.
I don't know things about that new Indiana Jones film.
I think the one in the space.
Yeah.
I can't go that one.
Logic is the Russian spy.
Indiana Jones and the last Death Star.
It is the people's crystal skull.
It belongs to all of us.
Yes, it is yours and mine, but mostly mine.
Let's, so let's get into it.
Okay.
Here we go.
Hey, look, Saratas, Star Wars.
You know, what's really great is he's got the subtitles so we can
actually hear his arguments with while posing.
No, no, no.
You, you've got, you've got the, the thingy, the extension
that makes the browser louder.
Don't forget rags paid attention.
I said, pausing him.
Yeah.
Meaning the, if we're halfway through a sentence, we can see the whole sentence.
Now the pause is louder.
That doesn't know.
Anyway, another unique pandemic from the heaven.
Star Wars opening with his high speed flat through the resistance ships.
Yeah, that's fine.
I liked it too.
I thought it was a neat shot.
Yeah.
Opening with this high speed fly through the resistance ships.
No feelings were harmed in the making of this scene.
I don't understand.
That what was that joke supposed to mean?
I don't understand.
Oh, wait, it's a follow up.
Hang on.
Don't speak BB eight.
Happy beach here, buddy.
Come on.
There you go.
Oh, happy beeps.
Okay.
I was a weird, but don't have robots as a, you know, thing.
The other thing that I'm confused about is he, he, he talked about
that one shot in the beginning.
So he's like, that's a cool shot.
When, and it's like, you're going to do that for every good shot.
Or are you going to, you're going to take away for bad shots?
Or is it just noting that one thing?
I'm curious.
I'm not familiar with cinema wins as a channel.
Does he do this with every film?
He's like, that shot's good.
I think so.
Every time there's a good shot, I guess the wins and, and by comparison,
the sins are kind of meaningless.
They just sort of, they kind of just like a satisfying like, Hey, Hey,
Hey, that's cool.
Hey, Hey, Hey ho ho.
That guy's uniform is like my uniform when I used to work at a restaurant.
Mine didn't have a, mine didn't have a first order patch on it.
It was like the, the, the wind counters are arbitrary, but they're just neat.
I think that's why they, they both do it, to be honest.
But also robots don't have feelings.
That's like, well, I made him feel good.
I was going to say, not as of solo.
They want to revolt against the system as they're just pro.
No, they're just programmed.
That one was just programmed to revolt.
She was programmed with feminism who grabbed to not do.
That's why she, that's why she failed.
Someone cloned Anita Sarkeesian's brain and put it in a robot.
No, she wasn't impressed enough.
You guys are racist.
You can't say that.
I don't like Anita Sarkeesian.
We're going to get banned from Patreon, dude.
Chill.
That's like inevitable.
I'm pretty sure at this point opening with this high speed fly
through the resistance ships.
No feelings were harmed in the making of this scene.
What?
You guys don't speak BB eight.
Happy beach here, buddy.
Come on.
I have an urgent communique for general hugs.
This isn't funny.
General hugs took me to my third.
Yeah, I didn't like it personally.
I thought general hugs.
Yeah, he does call him that.
Oh, I didn't even notice.
I thought I just said hugs and I didn't.
Okay.
I think he says he doesn't want to.
Oh, I didn't even know.
It's like hugs, hugs.
And it's a part of the whole making hugs look extremely non-threatening.
It's like, he's got a very bloody loves the hugs.
You're not allowed to like it.
If you're a Russian bot.
All right.
I hate hugs.
Even though they keep me warm and cold Siberian winter.
They are our hugs.
Catch that one.
You and your friends are doomed.
We will wipe your filth from the galaxy.
Donald Gleason is amazing and took the comedic tweak to his character in
stride while still chewing the freaking scenery in a believable way.
Chewing the scenery in a believable way.
What isn't the point of chewing the scenery basically overacting?
Either way.
Yeah, sure.
Donald Gleason is a good thing.
Why did, why did they think it's a good thing to basically retcon his
character and make a new one for this film?
Why is that a, why is that a wind counter?
The, that's the positive spit.
I suppose the negative spit is what the fuck have they just done?
I guess it's like, yeah, I guess he, he's good as an actor, but he's
playing the character completely different than the character was in the
previous film, which was like 10 minutes before this one.
Yeah.
Um, I agree.
Donald Gleason is a good actor that doesn't add to this film.
Really?
In the force awakens, did he get hit on the head or anything?
No, he's, uh, he's only threatening in the force awakens other than
he's stood around and screamed.
He's threatening and competent.
And he was so angry and screamed so much that he had like a little mini stroke.
He looked like he was about to cry during his speech in the force awakens.
So I guess he's got that.
I still remember that bit in the force wiggles being like, wow, he really,
really went for that, you know, the whole like, what are you shouting
before the laser goes off?
I could construct criticism, but yeah, I guess I agree.
Good acting.
That's fine.
But again, it doesn't really, it doesn't really help the last Jedi whether
or not the actors are good.
Cause, uh, it's the same for Mark Hamill.
I think he does amazing in this film, but
just gotta get that out of the way.
But I'm going to be doing that thing that most of the other last Jedi
defender videos say they won't do because, Hey, I'm nothing if not thorough.
You either think this is funny or, or you don't.
Well, I think I've said in my videos, like you're welcome to find it funny.
That's not something that follows me.
It's more about construction.
I'm concerned with.
And I don't quite understand why it would be funny.
Okay.
I don't understand half of these jokes.
Why they was the jokes.
Because he, he, um, he's just saying things like it's not even jokes.
Really.
It's just saying it's like the Homer Simpson joke.
Or is he talking about the scene?
I think he's talking about the hugs comment.
The fact that, uh, the fact that, uh, okay, then, all right, then
like Hux is being humiliated.
Like it's, it's funny because Hux isn't as threatening as he is fucking pausing.
You should, we should probably watch all 42 minutes.
So we understand the full context and then go back to the start.
And then we just, we just, we just, we just repurposing his
video for our own because otherwise we are, we are just, uh, commenting out of ignorance.
This is true.
This is really a bad thing to do.
Ha ha, he mispronounced Hux's name.
That funny.
Very funny.
His name is Hux.
I'm liking things, Russian bot.
You're doing it all wrong.
You're supposed to hate everything.
I hate how I like it.
They won't do because, Hey, I'm nothing if not thorough.
You either think this is funny or, or you don't.
Fair enough.
Hi, I'm holding for general hugs.
But don't pretend like goofy slapstick humor puns and yo mama caliber comedy
hasn't always been a part of star.
Yo mama comedy has been in stalls before.
Oh yeah.
Don't you remember that scene in episode five when Han found Luke and he was like
your mother, ha gets in thought in, uh, what was that stupid animal's name?
I was about to call it a Tauntaun.
Is that what it is?
Yeah, that's Tauntaun.
Well, wait, what are you referring to?
The, the half animal?
Yeah.
Yeah.
The thing that he put him in.
That's a Tauntaun.
Okay.
That's a Tauntaun.
Well, to be completely honest, I just want examples of what he would consider,
cause goofy slapstick humor.
Is he referring to Jar Jar Binks?
I guess, but that doesn't really, those aren't exactly parts
that people want to emulate.
They weren't well-received if I'm completely.
Jar Jar Binks is also the yo mama caliber comedy.
Like where else was, was comedy as, as brilliant and sparkling as yo mama.
In any, yeah.
I would just like, cause I'm not, I'm not going to say they were absolutely
none of slapstick humor puns or yo mama jokes in the OT, but I certainly
don't have any right to remember.
Well, it's not yo mama jokes.
It's yo mama caliber.
It's like jokes on the level of yo mama, which I don't think there were.
I don't think there were any jokes that poorly and lazily written.
Get this walking carpet out of my way.
Does that count as low caliber comedy?
No.
I was going to say, I'm trying to think of what you might be referencing.
I don't know.
Yeah, I genuinely don't know.
Oh, since instead, he's used as an example.
Star Wars.
I believe he's tooling with you, sir.
What about his mother?
We're all fine here now.
Thank you.
How are you?
How the fuck is that?
And then he shoots the fucking console.
That's genuinely one of the funniest moments in the series.
And it's not your, that's a high caliber comedy joke is Han Solo trying to
espionage his way through the situation and fucking up.
Well, look, if you use reader response theory, Han Solo technically said,
hi, your mom.
And then he shot the console.
It's the kind of joke I'd expect out of a Paul Rudd in, you know, even the
Ant-Man films when he goes, um, everything's fine here now.
Fine.
How are you?
I can see Ant-Man at the console infiltrating the Death Star turns
into a tiny Tonton, the squint after you, the squint after saying, how are you?
It's the moment of, oh shit, I fucked up.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's, that's way higher caliber for me.
I don't know.
Well, okay.
I wouldn't put that, well, the just playing it was funny.
It made me laugh.
And it happened to go bored conversation.
Anyway.
It was like, oh, that's Han Solo for you.
Yeah.
Han Solo is acting in character.
I think the idea isn't so much like, Hey look, this is your mama caliber.
I think the idea is it's a joke.
Therefore it's the same.
Which yeah, isn't, I know it's tough to sort of deconstruct jokes because ultimately
it's just like, did it make you laugh?
Well, not as far as we need to go.
But so, well, there are tears like at the bottom tier is like the last Jedi humor.
And at the very top, it's like MXC.
Like there's different levels of cleverness and humor.
Yeah, no shit.
Well, I was going to say, I definitely agree with that.
I just, I, I, I think there's very few people, especially in this conversation
who would disagree with that, but apparently, apparently.
It was like, does he think that like Adam Sandler movies are on the same level as
like a mystery science theater video?
Or like, are those the same level of humor?
His, uh, his argument is just humor has always been present and that's, that's
fine, but it's like on the same caliber.
I'm like, I'd have to disagree with it.
Uh, yeah, I'm not.
No, thank you.
How are you?
Conversation anyway.
And besides, this is a fun sequence where his stall actually makes
sense for whatever he's charging up to fly through this.
You don't even know what it is.
Do you guys remember that?
He charges something at the beginning of the film.
I don't know why his engine was like his engines or something.
Why wouldn't that just be something he has anyway?
Why is, why is he charging it?
And it's almost implied it's like a super boost and you're like, Oh, okay.
Why didn't he charge it up on the way there?
Because he could just turn his engine off and then coast towards the.
I suppose it's an attempt to explain how he can not be shot by the turrets because
that is a thing that happens.
And then they would see the bombers anyway, because they travel at one mile an hour.
And so they have to have had a headstart.
So it doesn't make sense.
Besides the store would be in this shot right here.
The store would be a different thing.
Like saying like the joke works because it's funny and because it functions as a
stall, it's like you could have had anything as a stall.
He could have been like, Hey, Hux, we're willing to surrender.
And then Hux is like, Oh shit, really?
You know, the fact that it's a stall doesn't assist it really.
It's just like, yeah, that's true.
I'm going to go get a beer.
Why didn't he just hyperdrive?
Chat.
I could drive into the dreadnought and use an escape pod just before.
So we could do it.
Why didn't they hyperdrive like anything?
I know the hyperdrive fucking ruins it.
Oh no, the dreadnought says like, all right, we're going to have to use
one of our ships to hyperdrive and not blow it up.
You know, I saw someone in the chat mentioned that the bombers had hyperdrives
on them, so they could have just, if the bombers actually, I'll Google it
while someone's doing that thing.
That's insane to think about.
If you just hyper drove the bombers into the ships, then well, I mean, the same
exact thing would get accomplished.
Not to mention that the dreadnought doesn't have shields.
If you remember, they just, it's just for some reason doesn't have any shields
unlike the star destroyers.
I mean, look, all the bombers get destroyed anyway, and all the people on
board them die anyway, so they had to do a fly into them.
According to Wikipedia, the MG 100 star fortress SF 17 is equipped with hyperdrive.
Wait, what is that?
That's the bomber, is it?
Yeah, they are equipped.
It is, it's canon that they are equipped with hyperdrive.
Well, what the fuck?
Look, it's hard to plan a war.
Okay, it's hard.
Sometimes you just got to do stuff.
But, no, no, there's got to be like a discussion tab.
Um, Brags, it's not worth your time to try and dissect this and film my logic.
Where?
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
sorry.
Can I just, why is it called a star fortress?
Because it's like the most useless world.
No, it's, it's, it's because it's supposed to represent a flying fortress, which was
the name of a World War Two bomber.
Well, I said really bad fortress.
Like I said in my videos, like I get it, I get the reference, but does it make sense
in their own context?
Because they die in a shot.
Yeah.
Can I point out though, that all of this makes perfect sense when you consider the
leadership demonstrated in the film of both teams, based on the leadership skills of
the people in charge that we see, it's perfectly in line.
Like this all makes perfect sense, actually.
Yeah, if this all made sense, if the battle plans made sense, then it would be
inconsistent.
If you look at this film from the lens of idiot response theory, you just think to
yourself, wow, two teams of morons pit against each other.
Let's see how much they can fuck this up.
It actually makes perfect sense.
It does.
If you remember Wolf, we had about it.
The guy said it makes sense because Hux is retarded.
Hux is an idiot.
And you're like, Oh, I said arrogant.
Yeah.
Well, he's making mistakes and it's explained by him having a personality flaw.
That's the overall point.
It's like, yeah, that's the characters in this movie are a personality flaw.
I think it's, I do think it's interesting though.
I had no idea that these bombers had a hyperdrive, but they do.
How threatening Star Destroyers would be if they actually could use the hyperdrive
that way, it'd be like, don't bring in the Star Destroyers.
They're just going to use one fighter and destroy all of them.
And so if maybe someone's defense was they used hyperdrive to get that close and
then stop.
To be fair, you can't really trust Wikipedia because anyone can edit it and
everyone has a political outlook on this.
All of the EPAP supporters are going to be editing it to try to make as little
sense as possible.
In fact, the last Jedi did not make sense.
The Empire Strikes Back clearly.
No, sorry.
Return of the Jedi establishes that X-wings have a hyperdrive, which means
why in the hell wouldn't every other ship of its similar size?
You know, there's, there's some precedent.
We don't actually see if a bomber actually does have it, but I'm assuming a
bomber does, but these ships were designed under the new regime of, uh, let's fuck
up all the time resistance, right?
That under the new regime of resistance leadership, these ships were designed
and these people are idiots.
So clearly they would not put hyperdrive in all of their ships.
Absolutely.
How did these things land?
Uh, they don't, they stay in space permanently.
Okay.
Fucking rags.
Such an idiot.
Doesn't understand science.
I don't charge enough to fly through there fast enough so the dreadnought can't
shoot them down.
Underdog ships doing unexpected things to beat superior ships is kind of a motif.
It did happen in the other films when you look at it broadly, therefore it's good.
This guy has to check his subtitles better.
No, I like that they're sticking to Poe being of the best pilot.
Oh, wait, is that what it says?
I like that they're sticking to Poe being the best of the best pilot.
Nevermind.
I'm stupid.
Wow.
I can't read today.
It should, I mean, it should, it should actually be the best of the best of the best pilot.
No, it's wrong.
It says Poe being a best of the best, not the best of the best pilot.
Because that would be redundant.
That's just Poe being the best pilot.
Someone in the chat said, I need to fucking wake up.
Wolf, I am axing you in this fanatical Disney Star Wars universe.
Does that make sense?
That Snoke calling him a boy would make him arrogant.
That's a good one, fanatical.
Disney fanatical Star Wars universe.
Poe being the best of the best pilot.
That needs to be in quotations, I think is how you'd fix that.
It actually plays into how arrogant it is.
I'm really trying to be like mentally present here.
Anyway, I am seriously so fucking tired.
So I might be a complete idiot this entire stream.
Just warning.
It's OK.
We still have to outclass Rags and Wolf.
Yeah.
The best of the best pilot.
It actually plays into how arrogant he is when it comes to honoring command decisions.
No, wrong.
That's incorrect.
No, that is not.
We'll have to see how he follows that up because he's not arrogant at all.
Oh, well, he goes into the bomber here.
He goes into the bombers.
So it's not an arrogant thing at all.
What he did is honoring commands, decisions.
You know, I find interesting.
This is not an argument I've even explored, but who should have final say
on the warfare involving the the fleet, the fleet commander or the general?
Yeah, she's a woman.
I just I know that the general outranks the fleet commander technically,
but surely the fleet commander during a fleet battle should probably have the same discretion.
And besides, it doesn't matter because all these ships do their own.
This is the thing that's missing from the film.
You need Poe telling them they have to come in.
He's ordering them to come in because he doesn't.
He just says, hey, guys, the the the cannons down and they all they all like
have positive outlooks and they're like, let's do it.
It's like if Leia told them all to come back, surely they would.
Question mark.
I mean, she would she have?
Well, she told Poe to come back.
He mutes here, but she doesn't get muted for the entire fleet.
So my question is, like, wouldn't she be like, wow, Poe just muted me.
OK, you know, sub commanders or captains, everyone come back.
No, because the bombers, they had to have been on the way.
Well, yeah, that too.
Well, this is the this is why this scene makes no sense whatsoever.
If the bombers said, OK, we're listening to Leia, we're going back, they would slowly
turn around and slowly start moving back to the thing, assuming that it would take
him it would take him 10 minutes to turn around.
And yeah, and they'd all get destroyed by the incoming TIE fighters,
which happens regardless.
This is why this film is so incompetently made.
If you wanted to make Poe the arrogant leader here, there's so many changes
you have to make, because as far as the audience is concerned,
he does everything he can in the to be honest, the right way to.
I think that I think Ryan was basically in his head.
He was just like, and suddenly bombers appear.
And that's why in the movie, suddenly bombers appear.
Well, I think in Ryan's head, there is just an endless loop of elevator music playing.
And that's what do, do, do.
That's how we got this.
Do, do, do, do, do, do, do.
He's sitting there.
He's writing his draft and he's bobbing his head back and forth and smiling.
Suddenly bombers appear.
Yeah, Poe being the best plays into how arrogant he is.
It's like, I suppose that he's not arrogant in the film.
He's just right.
And I know how arrogant that sounds as a statement,
but we've been through the arguments.
Now, I'm just imagining like a Ryan Johnson character
in the first Mass Effect game on those really long elevators
that took forever to get anywhere.
And that's just inside his head.
That's where he wrote the script.
He was just in an elevator.
Talking to Tali and Garris the whole time.
Ultimately, the reason that I don't believe it's arrogance
is because he doesn't do it for any personal gain.
And he doesn't do it because he wins any personal glory.
And he's not being impetuous.
He has a reason for doing what he does.
And the film shows that it pays off.
And he was correct in the decision that he made.
Yeah, which, you know, he might even be arrogant at that point, but he's right.
So what relevance is it?
Someone in the chat called him Brownhead Ryan.
Oh, that's a that's a commonly said thing for poor.
Really?
Yeah, I haven't.
I haven't heard that.
That's funny.
Was he ruined?
Johnson is one of those common ones as well.
I've heard that one.
I want to hear Trump say roundhead Ryan like all the time now.
So this seems like a simple thing, but I got to hit the easy ones.
Why do the bombs fall towards the ship when gravity wouldn't be pulling?
Exactly.
I find it interesting that it's supposed to be a win for the film.
And he he just said, I've got to hit the easy ones
as if I've got to hit the counter.
I got to counter the arguments against the film.
Which sort of gives you an impression of what the motivation of this video is
rather than just celebrating the good.
I thought that there wasn't gravity that was pulling them towards the ship.
I thought they were being propelled.
So this is the thing.
Everyone's just speculating on how this thing works.
I thought that the prevailing theory was magnets are pushing them out of the.
So I will tell you what the canon answer is,
because I have the MG 100 Star Fortress S at that 17
page here on the Wikipedia.
Yeah, the one edited by angry Last Jedi haters.
OK, totally inaccurate by those formal epheppers.
The slash SF-17's intended purpose was to deliver a payload
of one thousand forty eight proton bombs on top of a target.
The modular bombing magazine called the wait, wait a second.
If OK, wait, hold on.
OK, the modular bombing magazine called the clip by the bomber crew,
the magazine called the clip, fuck off, would drop the bombs through sequenced
would drop the bombs through sequenced electromagnetic plates in the clip,
which propelled the bombs to, quote unquote, drop in microgravity environments.
The bomb. So see, it doesn't just stay at stay at stay in space.
So don't ask me how it fucking lands.
So according to his own law, it's not to do with gravity.
So the bombs would then be drawn magnetic, drawn magnetically to their targets.
Oh, oh, wouldn't they be drawn to themselves at that point?
As in, yeah, they would just make a massive clump of the other
just make one Superball.
Wait, so do the do the bombs accelerate after they're out of the magazine?
You mean the clip?
Well, yeah, whatever it looks more like a magazine to me.
I'll read that one more time.
The modular bombing, I don't I don't care.
Do the bombs leave the ship bombs through sequenced electromagnetic plates
in the clip would propel the bombs to drop in microgravity environment.
The bombs would then be drawn magnetically to their targets.
So let me get this straight.
Basically, we're on our way out and they accelerate
when they approach the target as well.
So they they magnetize the clip
and it makes them be propelled down.
I guess this is clearly written by last Jedi haters to make it make no sense.
No, fuck. Listen, it's so fucking simple.
I mean, they OK.
So the bombs are in the clip is in.
And when they get electromagnetified, right?
The clip is the clip rails in does it makes them.
It makes them push downwards
because the only way the bombs could go is down
because the bottom of the clip is in is open like a clip.
You push it down.
So they get zoom downwards and then.
They the bombs have see that here's the thing.
So the bombs have to be magnetized the whole way.
Or they have to be.
They have to become magnetized after a certain distance
so that they are attracted.
So the bombs become magnets or they could just be accelerated
as they're being ejected.
That's what I thought it was.
They projected a rate of velocity to their target.
No, I'm asking you to space.
They would have to have constant thrust to do that.
Or maybe Ryan Jones.
No, what are you talking about?
Momentum, right?
Something is traveling at a specific rate in space.
It's not just going to stop as soon as it leaves.
No, no, no, that's what I'm saying.
If if you wanted them to.
I thought you were saying that they were propelled.
I'm saying if the if you want the velocity to increase
as it approaches the target between the ship that launched it and the target,
then you would need this extra like the bombs are magnetized
or some fucking nonsense.
Yeah, I'm asking.
Do they accelerate or or do there's no thruster on them?
So the bombs like they they snap their bomb fingers
and they become magnetized.
So that means that that means that they become attracted
to the thing that they are targeting or are supposed to go.
So it just works.
What's the point of that?
It's it's look, the point is that it's like having a magnetic bullet
that gets magnetized onto the person you're shooting.
It makes no it's pointless.
Just speak.
Well, that's just you know how like an enemy soldier is carrying a gun, right?
If you've magnetized the bullet on the way towards the enemy soldier,
home in on the gun that the bad guy man has.
So wait a minute.
Are we talking about the Needlers from Halo?
Yes, it's the needlers from Halo in retarded bomb form.
Look, the the conclusion of this is it's look how excessive
that is, all those bombs, when you could just have
repurpose them into a missile and fire the missile.
That's it.
Look, I think they did it OK the way that they do.
It's so it's a reference to World War Two.
Ryan fucking shoved it in and he just wants it to work.
He does not care if it makes sense.
I need I need you to I need you to listen.
So there is a page on proton bombs.
The resistance carried proton bombs into combat by MG 100
Fortress SF-17 bombers.
They were used to bomb the full Manetrix, a man data
for class siege dreadnought during the evacuation of the car.
Well, that's the clean home world.
While the bombers suffered heavy losses, especially like they all died.
So, yeah, you say that, especially when three bombers were lost
in an explosive chain reaction from a TIE fighter crashing into one of the bombers,
bomb bays, a lone bomber managed to drop its entire payload
on the dreadnought, destroying both the bomber and the dreadnought.
It destroys the bomb, it destroys the bomber on a successful bomb.
We did. We did cover that.
It's it's beyond incompetent design.
It's almost a parody of a bomber ship.
It's it's just hilarious.
But yet this argument will never end.
It's dumb. No matter how these bombs work, it's still dumb.
That's not even the only problem.
I I'm reading the chat. I'm I'm reading.
I'm reading the work of Wikipedia.
The Star Wars wiki.
Some people are saying is from the visual dictionary, so it is one to one.
What? It's not like a troll.
Do you think that the Last Jedi Defense Force squad
would allow incorrect information on the Wikipedia
about the MG 100 Star Fortress SF-17?
Do you think they would allow that?
I think not, sir.
I think not.
That's why she breaks her back to the artificial gravity on the ship.
So once the bombs leave the ship, there's nothing to slow their momentum downward.
See, I don't think the bombs are necessarily so stupid.
Like if you just had them being, you know, like magnetically,
you know, propelled out of the ship at the target like a gun.
That it makes sense ish.
Yeah, but you have to shoot 1048 of the fuckers.
This is what I was going to say.
There's a lot more.
There's a lot more stupid to it,
like the scene itself and the ship's design and how it will execute,
not just whether or not the bombs.
I mean, obviously, but just just inherently the idea is not.
I mean, this is obviously built around something fucking retarded
that Ryan Johnson created, so they're scrambling
to try and make sense of it all, like on Wikipedia.
It's interesting.
He like is implying the answer is obvious because it shows us the artificial
gravity, but it's like according to the Wikipedia,
that's not actually why that does what it does.
You know, I'm glad because having them drop
by artificial gravity would be kind of stupid.
Yes.
I wouldn't like that.
I wouldn't like that way of it working.
I don't think that they should have had the artificial gravity at all, really,
at least not in the bomb bay.
So when the chat pointed out,
someone in the chat pointed out, how can she kick if her spine is broken?
He said her leg, her leg isn't broken.
Yeah, no.
What are you, what are you, a doctor?
She's done.
Yeah, you'd be dummy just because her spines broken
doesn't mean her legs broken.
Duh.
I mean, gosh, come on.
It's because she's shot in the head.
Doesn't mean her heart is pumping blood.
Yeah, geez, you fucking idiot.
Anyway, here's the thing, like like the super chat that just brought up
like in comparison, all the vehicles from Warhammer make more sense than this.
There's like, there's a lot of things on it, you know, it breaks her back.
A lot of things make sense to the artificial gravity on the ship.
So once the bombs leave the ship, there's nothing to slow their momentum downward.
Also, self-sacrifice from our first badass good girl in this film showing no fear
in the end. Yeah, that was she badass.
She did nothing.
It's context, contextless.
It's like it's the same thing as saying cool explosion thing.
Like, yeah.
By the way, he's he's right about the fact that like, if they used artificial
gravity to propel the bombs out of the ship, there would be nothing
to slow their descent.
The problem is, I'm pretty sure the distance is involved here.
Like artificial gravity is not really the speed you want to propel those bombs.
You want something like faster that propels them at a decent rate of speed
because I'm pretty sure the pretty big gap there for these bombers to hit a target
that target must be huge and the target can't hyperspace or move
while the bombs are falling down.
I mean, imagine trying to hit a smaller ship with this design.
And also the idea of artificial gravity that just sort of applies
in one open bomb bay and just sort of stops at the edge of the of the opening.
Is kind of dumb.
I'm just going to lump up when they actually clump up.
I think they I think they would all clump up together
because the bombs themselves are would have to be magnetized.
Think about it. And I know this is a little bit pedantic.
It says they are drawn magnetically to their targets.
So they are being they are being pulled to the target.
Ignoring that.
Just the idea of just ignore that.
It's in the wiki to the fucking nerd.
So let's just say you have three balls, three bull bomb, whatever's going down.
This one goes, you know, five speeds and stays at five as soon as it gets out.
Second one is going at five speed.
And so when it comes out, it's it's already got the ones behind it
pushing it as well as it dropping in general, if you get what I mean.
So like they wouldn't all end up at the same speed surely.
Like there would be a bit of I don't know when they clump.
When they clump up, they would all basically come to a halt
because they're all being pulled towards each other.
So they're being pulled towards each other and towards the ship below them.
I think I know what you're saying, Mahler.
You're saying that the ones on the bottom
barely fall at all through the artificial gravity.
So they have, yeah, next to no speed.
And then the ones at the top fall a long distance through artificial gravity.
Oh, that's true.
They have. Oh, yeah, because it's like a gun barrel.
The longer that the longer a gun barrel,
and so they would explode themselves because the gas has more of the chain
reaction would go up into the ship.
The only thing it accomplishes is destroying itself.
That's true. Yeah.
The further up the rail in the ship, the bomb is the higher.
The faster the speed, it will move because the magnet has more time
to let it roll and build up speed when it leaves.
So it would slam into the bombs that were beneath.
And if it's not magnetic and if it's entirely about
artificial gravity as he's just positive, then, yeah, this problem is even
just certainly terrible because someone in the chat said rag Berlin
couldn't hyperspace out of Europe, and that's what it was based off of.
Duh, idiot.
They'll say no rags, they all have a relative forward speed.
Yeah, once they do at first, well, they actually just prove that they don't.
But they when they when they clump up, right,
when they start to clump up, they're they're being attracted
in different directions towards each other.
So that would change not only the speed they're moving,
but it would also probably affect their direction somewhat.
Though, to be fair, this design only in the best possible scenario
would only work against extremely large ships
that would be impossible to miss anyway.
It's not the it's the speed that wouldn't be the bigger issue, not the
not the accuracy bomb drop.
There are people who are like, move on.
We know it doesn't make sense.
It's like, you know, he's he's presented this like you guys don't get it.
They do, Wick.
And so now we have to be like, oh, let's double.
This is a molar stream.
We're going to spend eight hours on this.
We're going to get the thing right.
God damn it.
Yeah, we got a day.
22 seconds into this video.
Rags are the bombers wet?
No, because water would freeze in space.
On this film showing no fear in the end.
What happens?
Comeuppance?
That doesn't even.
OK, I hate that we've already played like two seconds
and now I have a big diatribe.
I want to go on.
So the the idea that Hux has fucked up in this fight, it's badass.
He's getting he's getting comeuppance for it.
It's like you do remember that the follow up is the they can't escape.
And Snoke didn't know this for no reason.
Snoke is like, oh, we have a hyperspace tracker.
Neat. I guess I was wrong to beat you up.
He practically says that in the scene.
He's like, yeah, you're right.
Hux, we have.
He was for the dreadnought being blown up.
Because I imagine that shit's expensive.
Well, is that Hux didn't do anything wrong
outside of not deploy the the TIE fighters fast enough,
which again is just like a why is a mistake he would make
when that's just standard procedure?
You approach the enemies, release the TIE fighters like why?
Yeah, but you see, I need you to understand that.
I'm I'm looking for the Wikipedia.
Keep talking.
Dreadnought Star Wars.
What are you looking for?
Whether I know here it is.
The executor.
No, that's the fucking wrong.
Dreadnought.
Here, the Mandator for class each dreadnought.
The Mazzator.
Yeah, the Mandator.
It has it has a crew.
Holy fucking shit.
It has a crew of 53,000 officers.
140,000 enlisted in 22,000 stormtroopers.
What about TIE fighters?
And one bomber.
Blew it all up.
Does it have any TIE fighters?
One.
I need you to understand this.
I need you to understand that one fighter blew up all the surface cannons
on this ship that has approximately that has over 200000 people on it.
And in the shielding, it has six deflector shield generators, it says,
and two orbital auto cannons and 26 dorsal point defense anti-aircraft cannons
and six tractor beam projectors.
Too bad they didn't use any of that in the battle.
And it has and it's listed as a compliment of TIE air TIE space superiority fighters.
Well, so.
It's so one bomber and one fighter destroyed this whole fucking thing.
The Mandator is really overpowered.
Remember when they introduced
Vader's personal star destroyer and empire and then at the end of the super star
destroyer, yeah, at the end of return, it crashes into the Death Star.
If I remember correctly, it's like a bee wig flew into the bridge.
Oh, well, we're supposed to assume that there are everything else has happened
during this thing has this thing has six tractor beam projectors on the
like on the front of the ship and everything.
Why didn't they just tractor beam Poe?
He was too small and too fast.
He's too small, too fast.
Why didn't they tractor beam the bombers?
Too small and too fast.
Too big and too slow.
Too big and too slow.
So we've successfully tracked to build the bombs inside our ship.
They're like, what the fuck did you well magnetize them out in space?
Fucking showing no fear in the end.
Supremely.
Come on, that's that's where Luke got shot in return of the Jedi.
Yikes, that's it.
Is it bad that that's what?
Oh, let's talk about Star Wars continuity.
It's badass.
Good. Hold on.
That that's that doesn't make any sense.
Why in 30 years would he not get any new?
Oh, well, it's neat.
But yeah, it seems unlikely you wouldn't have.
That's a mention.
Why why why didn't he not have the skin?
Because at the end of Empire Strikes Back, he had like the fake skin.
Well, you wouldn't be getting a new one.
But what am I saying?
Sometimes I feel like my skin's wearing off.
And yet to me, that's that's just a neat detail.
It doesn't help the film that much.
But yeah, sure.
Doesn't actually.
Yeah. Do you think that do you think that hand needs to be like recharged?
He plugs it into a socket in the stone wall of his little hut in the middle
of nowhere charged through his body because he eats.
And so it charges using his his body.
And gotcha.
You'd be surprised how much energy there is in food, really.
Now, Apple restores five percent of the hands functionality.
It's like a video game.
Except some continuity.
This isn't a jab at fans who idolize lightsabers.
This is Luke becoming the old hermit of this trilogy.
He didn't get it.
It doesn't make sense.
He does.
So he didn't get it then.
This scene only works if you've seen the film already,
because if you haven't, you're just confused.
Like this does this.
Wait, this is Luke becoming the old hermit of this trilogy.
He didn't get it then.
He does now.
He he didn't get why Obi-Wan was an old hermit.
And now he gets it because Obi-Wan hated the Jedi.
Oh, I'm not sure what he's trying to say with that.
Yeah, is that the idea lightsaber?
Yeah, and I don't think it's a jab at people who idolize lightsabers.
I think it's supposed to be a subversion.
It's supposed to go.
Hey, everyone expected him to go like, yes, my lightsaber.
Yeah, so cool.
Jump in the air.
But no, actually threw it off the fucking cliff.
Yeah, about that.
You're like, oh, OK.
It's confusing, though, and it's awkward.
The way he throws it is very matter of fact and just like me.
You're like, oh, everyone, the obvious fix for everyone suggests
is he just drops it or he slowly lets it fall down.
Like you just all your hands it back to Ray.
Any of those are better.
The way he throws it is like you need a sound effect like.
Yeah, and it's just like you have like the Looney Tunes.
This the screen goes black and there's a little circle in the back
in the middle of it zooming in on Ray's confused face.
Yeah, if they wanted to make Luke the Obi-Wan style old hermit,
like that would be one was a pretty somber guy.
You know, it's kind of very much in favor of the Jedi to.
Yeah, the lightsaber.
The whole point of Obi-Wan being a hermit in the first place
is he was there to watch over Luke.
You train him up to eventually kill Vader and bring back the Jedi.
Yeah, there was a purpose behind it.
Luke just wants to die.
And that's why he made a map to tell everyone where he was.
That's a misconception.
Hashtag not all old hermits.
Yeah, yeah, you hermitist now.
Yeah, laser swords do not a Jedi make.
Ray, that's not the point.
I don't call it a laser sword.
That's insulting.
It's a means to an end.
That's why Ben kept his.
Yeah, he said laser sword and then he said lightsaber.
It's kind of nice.
I don't know. Weird.
But Ray extending on a lightsaber to Luke was a clear invitation.
And he's denying that invitation, I suppose.
His lightsaber to Luke was a clear invitation.
Please come save the day with this super special tool akin to fix it.
Felix's hammer was fixed.
No, that's the guy from record.
Ralph, the hero of the connection that has emotionally to that lightsaber.
I would use Bob the Builder as a better reference.
I wish someone would fucking fix this film.
Bob the Builder can't fix this.
Yes, we can.
No, yes, he can.
Yes, we can.
It's the first time that Bob the Builder is like, fuck this.
Yeah, but can you fix this?
You'd have is please.
He's like, no, no, you know what I think would have been better
is if Luke didn't take the lightsaber at all like she holds it out
at the end of the Force Awakens, and he doesn't take it
at the end of the Force Awakens, right?
So he just looks at it at the beginning of Last Jedi
and then walks off or something.
Yeah, that would also be better.
It's mainly the slapstick element.
It looks silly and it's confusing to the audience.
The this whole narrative about how it's like it represents
trying to fix the universe via the Jedi and Lucas forsaken the Jedi.
And he just it's like that doesn't explain why he goes whoop.
So yeah, and either way, that's a whole other kind of worms to talk about.
Hopefully he'll get into it later.
Luke, your your sister is in mortal danger and Han Solo's son is evil.
You have to do something like you think.
Nope, I don't care about that shit anymore.
I'm grumpy.
He just wants to be alone with his elephant tits
and the little hermit people.
Fuck Leia.
When he's doing it, I almost dodged a bullet there.
He doesn't realize the rays watching him doing the milking thing.
Like he looks up, he's like, hey, stop it.
This is a private area.
Well, I got it.
I got to do this every fucking day.
Luke is letting her know he's not that guy.
And for good reason, as we get into the good reason.
No, first little hint that Luke has cut himself off from the force.
Otherwise, he'd but that's true.
She tell him.
No, it's true.
It's true that he wouldn't know about.
I don't die.
This is helpful, but this completely ignores the issue with this scene,
which is we cut away from him before seeing his reaction to fighting out.
There's nobody on this planet who thinks that's a good idea outside of Riah Johnson.
And they they deleted the scene, which, yeah, that's just so insulting.
No, oh, but we got to get over the horses.
We get the fucking casino scene where they're those capitalists.
White people get their comeuppance.
We get to see where fish with a stick the size of a mountain.
That's true.
He gets to milk the space cow.
You don't think you need it instead of seeing him react to his friend of three
of the entire series, you know?
Yeah, that's important.
We got to know how that happens.
Yeah, he's doing so.
It's funny that he said about the bombs.
He said you have to go with the easy ones.
Does that mean he won't cover the hard arguments?
I don't know.
Interesting wonder why a rabbit properly manipulated can be a sharp tool.
I'm going to stay away from hypothesizing too much about Snoke.
Most of what he says can be interpreted in varying ways.
I mean, who is he talking about?
The context and timing sounds like Hux.
He's addressing Kylo.
But the actual words, rabid curr, that applies way more to Kylo.
How? What is what is occur occur?
I let me check the Wikipedia.
I'll be honest, I thought he said rabbit curr at first.
And it was an aggressive dog or one that is in poor condition,
especially a mongrel or informal, a contemptible man.
So he just has like a little puppy in the back or mangy.
Hasn't eaten in a wild, forming at the mouth,
compensated by the emperor, flopsy.
Yeah, no, I agree.
I agree that that applies more to Kylo than it does to Hux.
I suppose you could have thought he was talking about Kylo.
I thought that I didn't even think it was like up for.
So the idea with the scene is that he's explaining why Hux is in charge to Kylo.
And he's like, it's useful to have a fucking idiot in at the top
because you can manipulate them.
But then it doubles up as is that a potential commentary on Kylo, too?
Which is that's fine with me.
Maybe someone said when Uncle Owen and Aunt Beru get more morning than so.
Kyle, I don't know what you said.
Oh, shit, I got to eat more cookies.
This beer is going in my head.
Oh, I need to get a beer.
You guys suck on rags.
Yeah, we've got to get plenty intoxicated by the end of this
because we're not going to get through it otherwise.
Mauler, you and me are going to have to be the sober nobles for this podcast.
Open novels. Sounds gay, dude.
Mm, cookies, cookies.
It's five o'clock somewhere.
That's like your opinion.
Yeah, you know, it doesn't doesn't really add anything to anything
other than maybe you could you could extrapolate.
Like this reveals why Snoke has Kylo in the first place,
but Kylo doesn't end up killing him.
So you're fucked Snoke, basically.
Yeah, maybe Snoke is talking about Kylo.
Maybe Snoke is talking about himself and look at your face.
That's yeah, that's true.
Look at his fabulous bathrobe, though.
A cure is a low or mixed breed dog, which is exactly what Kylo is.
If anyone acts like they have rabies, it's Kylo.
What? But what about Hux?
Oh, fuck it. Who acts like they have rabies?
I think they are rabies.
How does mixed breed apply to Kylo?
Skywalker and Solo.
Those are breeds.
I think he's being metaphoric.
He's like, he's like a mudblood.
No, it's like you're a Jedi and a non-Jedi have a baby.
It's like, oh, shit.
Wizard having like a mudblood.
Yeah, that's it. Yeah.
Guys, don't don't give the SJWs any more ammo.
They're going to use that's like a excuse of a good example of a mixed racial.
Mudblood, that's less than the N word.
Oh, fuck, my Patreon's doomed.
The numbers in the background. Doo doo doo doo doo doo.
No. Oh.
But yeah, OK.
I don't if anyone acts like they have rabies, it's Kylo.
Is he just talking about the fact that he screams all the time, I guess?
Dogs, it doesn't mean you have rabies.
It just means that the metaphorical God is metaphorical rabies.
Like they have rabies. It's Kylo.
So is he talking to Kylo about Kylo?
He's also a sharp tool.
He's manipulated.
My point is that Snoke, how is Kylo a sharp tool?
I suppose he's manipulated him into killing Han Solo.
If you can call that manipulation, I don't even know.
I don't know.
He doesn't seem like the sharpest tool in the shed to me.
He was looking kind of dumb with his finger and his thumb.
No. Yeah, he doesn't seem like that.
Yeah, I'm not even sure what this really adds to it.
Just like, yeah, Snoke is weird.
These wind counters, man, and they don't stop coming and they don't stop coming.
And they don't come.
They don't pull or he knows.
Hey, no, you're a night of rain.
We may not have seen the last week or at least the effects of what he set in motion.
Do you think if you stuck your finger in that crack in Snoke's head, you should have heard his brain?
No, no.
The Imperial March is an actual music in the universe.
It's for the film.
There's not like an orchestra in the back of this room playing.
It plays as he says, Veda, which to me is a little bit on the nose, but fine.
That's neat, I suppose.
Remember Darth Vader, guys?
Could you do an efap on Shrek retool?
Well, the thing is, we wouldn't be able to pause it because we'd be so enraptured with how beautiful that is.
We copyright claim completely because I'm pretty sure that.
Oh, well, it has songs in it.
Maybe it's not copyright claim.
I don't know, actually.
Well, there's like the 80s version of I saw.
Oh, in the end, it's actually rags.
You are wrong and you're wrong in a in a good way in terms of just it's sad.
But the Imperial March is actually in universe music now as of solo.
They play it on their recruitment video.
OK, I'm I'm I'm still not wrong, though, because.
There is no unless.
OK, so that is retarded, by the way.
The fact that the the the fucking Imperial March theme song exists in the universe.
Two, it's not actually playing.
Well, you're still right in the it's not like an orchestra in this room,
but I'm a part of the soundtrack.
It's not actually playing in in the room.
Yeah, I meant like the act of the act, not like the song, but the music itself that was playing.
But what if there is like an orchestra on the other side of the camera?
He's clearly got money to throw around.
Why the fuck not?
I love. Yeah.
I mean, look at that fabulous dress he's wearing like you.
Whenever I mention Vader, play that thing.
He needs to do that belt up a bit better.
Look, it's all it's all sagging, like, come on.
Do you think John Williams is Snoke's slave?
And he's just like, you will make music for me forever.
Play cool new tracks.
He's like, I don't know what he do.
John Williams is like, let's do the Harry Potter theme, guys.
Turn down for what?
And Kylo's theme overtakes it when he smashes his mask,
symbolically letting go of his obsession with Vader.
OK, you could have gone either way with that.
You could have been like symbolically
showing that he's absorbed Vader into his personality now.
And JJ Abrams is symbolically retconning this
and bringing the helmet back in the next movie.
Kylo symbolically destroying the Force Awakens by destroying his helmet.
Because they just don't give a shit about that film.
But this one can I also mention when and how does he take this metal
bit out of his face?
Because this is like the last time we ever see it.
We see him in a medical bay getting worked on.
So we just assume that the metal bit got taken out.
You know, you could symbolically smash the patriarchy
by smashing that like button on this video right now.
Like, comment, favorite and subscribe.
Don't forget to support our Patreons
or our subscriber stars because Patreon is awful.
But I love you, Patreon.
Please don't blame me by the.
What the fuck do you just say?
You're like nothing, nothing at all.
I said that I love everyone, especially women and minorities.
By the official Efap t-shirt.
Coming soon in a century near you.
But yeah, his first attempt to kill the past.
It's like, sure, wasn't it at one point not have the mask,
meaning that to kill the past wouldn't be killing the helmet because that's just.
And oh, my God, if the helmet comes back in the new film,
that's going to be awkward, isn't it?
Anyway, the message gymnastics will be amazing.
Also, he had a spare.
I'm surprised the chat wasn't more triggered by him saying
Kylo's theme takes over. It's like, no, I don't even fucking know.
It's the four notes where it goes, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh.
OK, so it's basically a nothing piece of music.
Nobody, man.
Yeah, it's like the Black Panther theme where it's like, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh,
duh, duh, duh, you got it all wrong.
The orchestra in the throne room is playing really loudly
and we can hear the muffled sound of the orchestra playing.
Kyle's Kyle is like, yes,
one of my apprentices must have a theme.
They were playing.
They were playing Vegas theme.
And that's because I play Kylo's.
I prefer that one.
No, play Kyle.
Kyle's, right?
Play Kyle's theme.
Kyle, he just puts on like a pair of glasses and he's like,
take off that stupid wig.
He's like a little blonde kid.
Play Kyle's theme.
Kyle!
Kyle, what the fuck have you been doing?
Someone said Kyle Ben.
Kyle Ben.
Kyle Ben.
All right, he's he's gone now.
Go back to paying India.
It's like, who is this mysterious Sith Kyle Ben?
He had a fire. Yeah, the Zito fire.
He takes off his helmet and you see Seth Rogen underneath it.
Daddy to play Seth's theme.
Or it's fucking Michael's zero.
But I'll play my Michael's.
So Kyle McFarland.
You can't go to school, baby.
God damn it, Kyle Ben.
Go to your room.
I now need to see a rendition of the Michael's hair playing.
That's going to be a meme by the end of tonight, probably.
Well, Kylo is a fucking disaster.
Kyle, you're up.
OK, guys, send send it to send it to Mahler,
since me and Rags don't have Twitter anymore.
I want to see a really I know you guys can do it
because I've seen your your Jared Ady Moondi photo.
Sure. I see.
I want to see Michael Cera with like
I just just photoshopped Michael Cera's face under Kylo Renz.
Like when he first takes off his helmet in The Force Awakens,
just with that stupid retarded smile he always wears
ugly little face just.
So then Mahler can send it to me later.
What? Why the hostility for Michael Cera, dude?
It's not just about how defenseless his face seems.
I've met Michael Cera.
I spoke with him.
Oh, name dropping.
No, I did. I did.
He stayed. OK, I doxed Michael Cera.
His real name is.
It's really. So I worked at a hotel once
and it was later at night and it was kind of slow.
So I was being the doorman for the hotel and fucking Michael Cera
shows up in a red Prius.
I shit, you know, you're not.
I I'm not lying, Michael.
That's perfect.
And a red Prius, the Michael he fucking gets out of the car.
It's Michael Cera.
Michael Cera is the red Prius of actors.
It's true, but he had like this chick with him
and they had like a dog and they had a little doggy stuff, you know,
but they checked in and normally don't use the real names.
But yeah, he's just checking in.
It's pretty, pretty normal checking thing.
You should Photoshop Michael Cera's rabid cur.
You know, yeah, Joe de Helmut.
It's Kyle Kyle Ben.
Michael Cera is the most like non intimidating face.
That's why you have to pick him.
It's like, who's less intimidating than Michael Cera?
It's like when I was like when I was like, he seems like the kind of person
that you're just you don't want to hurt him by talking to him.
Hello. And he goes.
He just like looks away and he's.
Hey, YouTube Rewind, by the way, is up to
seven point five million dislikes.
So how many to two million likes?
You know, that many likes because people are retarded.
Well, I was going to say this.
Anybody who's fans of the people who are in it probably were like,
hey, this is neat.
Like Casey Neistat's fan base may have all liked it, which is a pretty big case.
Well, if they like Casey Neistat, then they'll like anything.
I like to hate you on it.
Screaming about K-pop, seriously.
Hey, she's taking it where he says like Casey's doing that.
He's like, oh, you can just imagine that he like signed up for it.
They had him on set and they're like, we need you to scream K-pop.
He's probably like, OK.
He does it. He looks back like, oh, man.
Probably hasn't heard K-pop in his life.
Yeah. I wonder if Casey Neistat went there in the first guy to see him
like shuttered when he saw how oddly far apart his eyes are.
Well, we'll pick it on people how they look, huh?
I'm just I'm just saying he's got an unsettling looking face.
What Casey Neistat is, like, he plays the part of a disheveled island
dweller very well, disheveled island dweller.
I am voting for Hillary Clinton.
Yeah, I have to do that again this year, 2020.
If she runs, I am voting for Hillary Clinton.
It's like, she's not running.
I'm voting for Hillary Clinton.
I am voting for Donald Trump.
Like, well, why the fuck not?
I should probably, you know, if you can take a small break for anything
you guys want to do, I'm going to try and know we can't get.
We're getting political.
I'll get through some super shorts because I stack up a night.
Play Trump's theme.
Trump's.
Duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh.
No, that's not it. It's duh, duh, duh, duh, duh.
It's like rescue theme.
Just plays the Avengers theme. We're like, wait.
Duh, duh, duh, duh, duh, duh.
It's the captured planet theme.
Trump is Captain Planet.
That would be a great theme for Trump, actually.
Captain America.
So, yeah, if you guys if you want to grab beers, go to toilets, whatever.
So I have a beer.
Just go through with work training and tips.
God is great.
You can't say that with our guests.
Yeah, he's got chips.
Oh, what was that about God?
Oh, I heard the word God.
Oh, I thought you meant chips.
I was like, what does he have against chips?
They meant the God in Star Wars.
They were referring to the film.
This is the fictional.
It's all fine. It's OK.
I don't have to tip my fedora right now.
No, it's not a top hat. Let's be fair.
It's a very tall fedora.
No, it's a Santa hat.
Santa hat.
Don't tip your Santa hat.
Keep it erect.
Ifap commentators for higher edition.
And get it because because because I'm fluffy.
Started playing Neo.
I love it. Good.
Glad to see a favorite group of the factors back again.
Playing D and D.
So I'll catch the stream later.
Don't let the tisms get you down too much.
Hope you're all doing well.
Mola. Oh, well, thanks.
Very kind. Bye bye.
Love the criticism of her.
I meant her comment.
Well, this is what do you what?
I'm saying goodbye to the person who made the comment.
Like he was here with us and he showed up and made his comment.
And now he's sleeping.
This is from Michael, directed at Logic.
Love your criticism of armored skeptic.
Love the guy.
You've got to call out floors in a person when you have to.
Don't know if Chad asked which was my favorite beer.
It's this one, this one, this specific one right here is my favorite.
But I don't know if you even want to respond to that or anything.
I don't even know if logic is actually there right now.
Logic, thanks for thanks for responding to armored skeptic.
I was skeptic.
Come be on a fat.
I wonder that would probably piss people off more so than even logic.
I you never know with these things because
it's it's what comes with the people, right?
Because again, how do you think people would react if we had
who's like the craziest left leaning person on YouTube?
Uh, who's that tranny?
Who's that tranny?
Oh, Riley J. Dennis.
Yeah, that's it.
What if we Riley Dennis and Sargon of Akadon in the same stream?
People say that.
Well, to get Alex Jones and Riley J. Dennis.
Oh, I don't like important chemicals in the water
that turn the frickin Riley's game.
Actually, I shouldn't have asked that question
because now it's going to be a shit ton of posts on the chat.
Like, okay, this, this, this, this, this movie, Bob.
Someone someone said Anna Kasparian.
I didn't mean to imply that Sargon is heavy, right?
I was just saying that we can't even have Sargon on without pissing off
probably half my audience as Sean and Jen.
That wouldn't work.
No, Sean and Jen's too retarded.
We might, you know, maybe Sean responds to a lot of criticism.
I don't know if he you never know with any of these people
who wants to come on or doesn't.
Anyway, hey, Melissa, sorry, but had to quit Patreon after banning.
Is there another place I can support you for now?
I just mean, well, super chats work if if if you wanted to give, let's say,
one one cent per month on on Patreon,
then you could always just throw a cent on super chat instead,
because we do have smaller ones per month.
So that should work out, I suppose.
You should throw one cent point three.
Yeah, because you do.
If apps with us.
Oh, wait, yeah. Logic, someone sent in a super chat saying,
thank you for criticizing Ahmed Skeptic.
I don't know if you wanted to respond or anything.
Uh, you're welcome.
Yeah, there we go.
So good hearing wolf again, excited for a long fap.
Is the rhino milk wet?
Yeah, boy.
PUBG on PS4 is actually pretty good. Fair enough.
If I please roast my friend as his Christmas present from me.
He's watching now.
His name is Ken, a vegan Iranian crossfitter.
Well, he can walk back off to where he came from.
She's just rags.
We don't know.
We don't entertain no vegan crossfitters.
Go back to your nuclear country.
Go back to your vegan crossfit.
Crossfit is coming from a specific country.
Crossfit.
Think cross the border fit more.
Stop reviewing a movie about space children intended for wizards.
Bilbo Willems.
Yeah, break up.
Bilbo Willems.
Why watch a fap where you could look at rhinos and milk women
at least three times and not get bored?
Bilbo back in this fucking references.
Hey, guys, been working two jobs 80 hours a week.
I wouldn't have made it if it went for the sweet fapping in my ears.
Thanks. That is excellent.
The fucking 80 hours a week.
We can't even have enough to support that kind of commitment, but.
Oh, my God, someone's in check.
Kyle Ben Shapiro, Kyle Ben Shapiro.
You should have thought Skywalker at some point.
You promoted your critique has a decent following
and always has something interesting to say about Star Wars.
Feel like you're pretty epic.
I did actually put a comment on his video thanking him for that.
And yeah, maybe he's we got a lot of guests to get there.
We need to get a weekend warrior on.
I keep we said we'd have him on since like the first episode
and we still haven't managed to get around to it yet.
We'll get there. I swear, Kyle Ben Affleck.
Can I get a all hail the blue whale in the chat?
All hail the blue whale.
All hail the blue whale.
That's the the Gulf Stream.
That's like the one that like ghastly does, right?
I don't know.
Ending always gets me. Who else watches in 2019?
Ending always gets me.
Like this video if you're watching in 2019.
Y'all should get E.R. on this.
That's a forever fucking task, because E.R.
is like just impossible to get a hold of other than Twitter.
He's quite he's he's he's he's on Twitter quite actively.
Oh, well, someone's someone's got an attempt at the Michael Cera thing that you wanted.
I mean, it's not great.
I have had three people mention this Alexandria Ocasio Cortez
and be like, Wolf would like this.
I don't know what that is.
Apparently, she revealed her Jewish ancestry at a Hanukkah celebration.
It's time to warm up the Evans.
Because it's cold in December.
So why do they think you don't like the Jews?
I don't know. I don't know why.
Well, I'm the one who's edgy against the Jews more so than Wolf is.
But I think you've made you jokes, haven't you?
Yes, I have in the past.
So it's automatically hates everything.
I love I love the Jewish people.
There you go.
There they really are.
Did you guys know the PewDiePie shout out?
You are. He did.
Yeah, in a new video, he said that he makes really good video essays.
He recommends checking about, which is awkward considering.
Certain things on the videos from PewDiePie's fan base might not be accepted.
It's like, what the fuck is this?
I feel bad for every time I recommend PewDiePie's fan base accepts an awful lot.
True. True.
PewDiePie isn't exactly typical YouTube star guy.
Did you see that there already have been articles calling PewDiePie
a Nazi sympathizer because he liked E.R.'s video on death note?
No, but his video on death note was great.
Yeah, I don't know anything about this.
Some people have said this yesterday night.
I watched Death Note last night.
It's so weird that you're talking about it.
I fucking watched it last night.
Wait, the anime or the movie?
The movie. Oh, God, why did you do that?
Because because Kabir and just someone affects and some people were watching it.
I've popped in is like, what are you guys doing?
Is like, we're watching Death Note.
And there I was. And it's awful.
Yeah, I read the whole manga and it's amazing.
And then I didn't want to watch the movie.
Don't watch Death Note 2017.
It's it's worth seeing to watch.
We are rip it down, though.
Well, you just watch him rip it down.
You just watch E.R.'s video on it.
Because, yeah, he they destroyed everything good about the manga and the anime.
Watch E.R. and Weekend Warriors video.
On Death Note 2017.
They are. They're funny. Good.
OK, so this is a director, you rags, apparently.
What is the difference between a message telling you
that you are being damaged and in pain?
I'm a pain is a sense.
Pain is necessarily a specific sensation.
And a message can be a wide variety of different signals.
What this is probably in reference to.
We talked about it briefly on one of the apps about like,
would it be with programming pain into an A.I.
or something like that?
And then we said, well, you might need to program the ability
for it to detect pain as a message.
We basically said, is it moral if you created an A.I.,
is it would it be moral to give it to have it experience pain?
Let's just talk to Martin Luther.
Pepe is in the chair.
What what kind of pain are we talking about?
Are we talking about like emotional pain or like?
Well, that's that's the question,
because I would be thinking like physical pain.
No, there wouldn't be because you could give it a sensation
that wouldn't need to be paying a kiss.
You just give it a notification.
Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
But like when it comes to like mental anguish,
like I don't think it would be possible to not.
I have to. It's like it's a very complex.
It's a very broad subject as well, because it's
there's a lot of other questions that could come with it.
Yeah. So yeah, but hopefully that answers it.
I suppose. But yes, it does for now,
because we have to finish this movie review eventually.
It's been like two hours. We got three minutes.
Hello, gentlemen.
I'm about to work on Hitman 2, Sniperly,
and many other games for videos on my new channel.
I was wondering if you could share some tips
on how to get more people to watch your content.
Where have you got folks?
Ted, I would say have a good microphone.
It helps when people listen to your voice.
If you have a poor sounding voice,
then even if your content is very good otherwise,
it can be annoying to listen to and it will turn people away.
Make sure you advertise better help that come.
Also, I've heard a lot of people like when they're
and they're playing games, they're just like,
they just play the game and then they go like,
I got to go over here.
I'll do that, but give people something to listen to.
Don't don't narrate what you're doing.
We don't need that. We're watching you do it.
We don't need your narration and your voice of what I'm doing.
Yeah, I mean, you can explain why you're doing what you're doing.
That's sometimes useful, especially if you're doing like speed runs
or anything like that.
No, people are saying I'm a lightweight.
No, well, I am, but I'm not.
It's not because of this.
It's not because of this.
What is it because of?
What's this? What is this?
Yeah, you're referring to.
No, people think I'm acting oddly,
and I think that's a gross
mischaracterization of my behavior.
And people are saying it's because of the beer.
It's clearly not. It's obviously not.
Well, look, guys, I can say the word mischaracterization.
What is what is the cause that ranks reveal?
Seems to be the officer reveal the officer.
What what is causing you to it's not the beer you said.
So what is it?
Are you depressed?
Do you want to talk about it?
Well, I'm asking you because you said the beer is not the cause of it.
And you're like, so what is the cause of it?
Cause of what?
That was my question to you.
I don't understand your questions.
We very well.
We need to get back to.
I don't know what words mean.
So next one is with Sargon being deplatformed by Patreon
without proper justification.
I've decided decided to avoid Patreon.
How can I show support while avoiding that platform?
Is it subscriber star that?
Well, I'm not on there as of yet,
but I mean, the fact that you've just given a as a super chat,
like that'll that'll still absolutely support the channel momentarily.
So don't don't worry.
You can always do it through that, assuming.
I mean, if if every YouTube does something, you disagree with that.
I don't know how that works ethically because that's what my videos are like.
YouTube always does things I was about to say.
YouTube's got to remember YouTube takes 30 percent.
Patreon takes five or less even.
So just just remember that we're going to continue the video eventually.
We get a bit.
I like a lot of cinema wins past stuff, but this one was a lot of defending
the film instead of pointing out the positives like it usually does.
It seems a little defensive so far, but we'll see how it goes.
Because he even addressed like I have to cover.
He's like, why do you have to just point out the good things?
Be nice to Bell Hooks bot reference.
Bell Hooks is a feminist lady.
She wrote books.
Fair enough.
It was a tough decision to join you all instead of playing Super Smash,
but I'm glad I did.
Someone needed to rip this video to shreds.
E-PAP on Dangus faces.
He called us Dangus faces, guys.
You know, Bell Hooks his real name is Gloria Jean Watkins.
Frickin docks.
His conclusion will be longer than the usual.
His conclusion will be longer than the usual.
Oh, oh, God.
OK, so we'll OK, that makes sense.
Well, we'll see that eventually.
News flash.
One guy who likes the Last Jedi doesn't understand why people what people liked
about the OT.
I mean, well, he only had that one reference, but hey.
Send pick on a discord might be good for a lot of if you want to send attempts
at Michael Cera, I just check my Twitter.
There's another three.
Oh, send a Michael Cera.
Come, E-PAP with us.
You won't you probably won't remember me, but
Michael Cera on E-PAP.
Especially come back.
What is this?
Cera Ren?
Life is mini dolgan, boy.
Yeah.
This is good.
Bill God, which was what is.
Oh, it only shows me a shit.
What's this?
Oh, if you click it, it'll probably take you to it.
Open original.
Yep.
Yeah, that's.
Guys, we have to hurry up.
All right. Well, eight hours.
Let me get through the rest, because I'll just go quick.
Hey, Wolf, if one of your fans slash patrons
is willing to have a new icon created for you by a half decent artist,
would you use it?
Oh, oh, I um.
The guy who usually does my art, I'm not going to be doing.
Oh, I don't know if I'm going to be doing like the little still frame animations
that I usually did do it.
Well, I don't have them anymore.
But anyway, no one's where'd they go?
I deleted them. Why?
Because I'm dropping the whole fursona thing.
Why?
You know, why I don't know why he did lay this out in his video rags.
If you give up your fursona, then the furries win.
As oddly as that sounds, what?
That's perfectly fine by me.
I don't really care.
But anyway, he's he's making me a new icon.
It should be done by like the end of the month.
And I don't know if I'm going to be doing animations or anything in the future.
I comes more like eye candy.
Oh, you're right there, right?
Rags, you've already shown me enough of your eye candy in the past.
I don't I don't think we need it anymore.
Like like me with my shades off.
Yeah, sure. Yeah, naked rags.
That's I know I'm losing the shade off is like rags.
Please put your clothes back.
Someone in the chat said Christ.
Guys, guys, someone in the chat said show the Michael Sierra picture.
Show the Michael Sierra picture.
I did post a lot.
We're sitting here laughing at them and nobody can see.
I post all of them over the posted.
Yeah. And why are they saying show the Michael Sierra picture?
Because the chance, no logic.
Fuck. Are the chats retarded?
Isn't Michael Sierra are you retarded?
His name is Michael, Sarah with the C and an E and an R and A.
Oh, it's clearly Sierra.
The chatter said it.
No, it's Michael, Sarah, which maybe that's the problem.
They see all these Michael Sarah's and they want to see.
It's OK. It's not like you need rags.
Rags, do you need a logic?
Well, so someone said I don't use Twitter rags and rags.
Sierra missed Michael and Michael and rags
and wolf are both bad from Twitter and yet
they can see the pictures.
You don't need Twitter to see them.
Yeah, you don't need Twitter.
You just click on it and it takes you to the tweet.
Just put the just hold on.
I'll I'll put the links in there myself.
Yeah. And while you're doing that, logics can apologize.
I'm sorry, rags, for whatever.
No, apologize to Michael Sierra.
I'm sorry, Michael Sierra, for confusing you with Michael Sarah.
Because Michael Sierra is going to watch this
and he's going to be wondering why you're talking about him.
There's going to be a guy out there who is called Michael Sierra
and he probably gets so many jokes made about him.
Well, there was a guy in the last stream we did whose name was Jay.
And I was like, I love you, Jay.
And he was like, thank you.
Well, that is a red lead media joke.
Yeah, I was wondering why I felt like I'd heard that before.
That's right, boy.
Shit, my red lead media law.
Come on, brain work.
It's
it's that it's rich Evan says it is the era.
No, no. Yeah.
Rich Evans say it says Chris Helmsworth.
That's it. Yeah.
Instead of Chris Hemsworth, there you go.
Helmsworth is the form of Chris Helmsworth.
Helmsworth grab my sword and gauntlets.
We're getting to a joust today.
I mean, it's worse than the Russian voice, but I mean, you're trying.
That's the important part. Helmsworth.
Yeah, I tried to do like angry Scottish, but I can't do that.
Really? Come here, Helmsworth.
Anyway, Helmsworth grab my sicko.
We need to finish the movie review, guys.
The fuck I'm trying to still get you two.
All right, guys, we're on the final stretch.
Shut up. Shut up.
Mueller, Quinton, T.R.O.
Patrick Willems, Joseph Anderson formed their own anti-efab stream.
What would it be called?
My vote would be content using no thought, otherwise known as cunt.
I like it.
They've never seen one of those.
I think we've had that.
We came up with a name for it on a different e-fab.
I can't remember what it was, but yes, I would watch the shit out of it, too.
Can you imagine how funny that would be?
Because they constantly share opinions, but then they keep saying,
in my opinion, at the beginning and end of it, it's just like, well,
I put it in the fucking air, this is what it is.
Leia should have hyper-drived into the Dreadnought.
Or at least said someone there.
Babylon 5, Starf, Yuri Turn, got my hopes up, Psy.
I've actually seen Babylon 5, but I don't remember it enough
to know the references I got.
People are suggesting P.A.F.E. again.
Oh, what does that stand for?
Oh, it's the backwards of e-fabs.
It's e-fabs, yeah.
I think that was it, yeah.
Awesome Wolf, welcome back.
Hello, e-fap. Excellent.
Love everyone's content.
Molly, you've inspired me to review the Stalker games.
Hail, Sith Lords.
Excellent inspiration.
Hail, Sith Lords.
You think Brazil will screw over Disney's current acquisition attempt?
Of Brazil?
How will Brazil do anything?
Disney acquiring Brazil.
I don't know how that would happen.
I'm not sure about that.
A guy on Wikipedia changed Rose Tego's page name
to Ching Chong Bing Bong, and he got bad for it.
I think someone said that as a butcher.
You can't talk about the Bing Bongs like that.
Leia actually gave the OK command to the bombers.
You did?
Well, they must have left.
I don't remember them showing that.
Well, you can extrapolate based off of the evidence.
That's my perception of it.
She could have stopped them if she wanted to.
It's a mag, not a clip, man.
Disney fuck stars using Ryan Johnson's.
Ryan's Johnson.
There you go.
It's saying Cloudparsier to blame for all of this.
That makes sense.
Won't be catching the stream.
Got work soon, but don't be too mean to cinema wins.
After watching the video, about half his points
feel like he at least tried to make the movie decent and failed.
Well, yeah, as you can see, we are, what is that?
Fucking less than 4% way through.
So we're getting there.
So how is that less than 4%?
I fucking I was rushing.
I realized math in your brain.
It's I looked at four minutes being rounded up.
And then I was like, so it's under four minutes, under 4%.
But you have to double the 42 to reach even close to 100,
which means it's under 9% at least.
You happy now, logic?
You happy?
Yeah, yeah.
So basically, the bomber payloads are magnetically
accelerated to their targets.
Why not just use missiles?
Because missiles are fucking expensive.
These things are cheap.
That would actually make sense, at least.
It wouldn't because you're paying, which is more expensive?
A missile or 1048 proton bomb.
I would love to see a version where like the resistance is
super fucking poor because they're constantly
being hammered down.
And so they all they can do is like magnetically propel rocks.
But if they pinched their pennies, right, if they pulled
their money, if they had like a fund that they would donate to
like a Salvation Army bell ringer right in front of Kroger,
like like like a resistant patreon kind of basically they
would get enough money to buy a hyperspace engine and they
would just strap it to an asteroid wouldn't wouldn't know
that would be like the deadliest if the first order had the
rating government though, they would say you have to take down
the resistance patreon because they're a terrorist.
Oh, yeah, they would do a platform resistance.
Well, look, all you have to do is go to Coruscant and all their
funds are in the basement of Dexter's diner.
So you can't say Dexter.
You have to Dexter Jettster every time I say the full name.
Sorry, Dexter Jettster.
I think I'm not a Star Wars fan.
I'm not a true fan.
Guys, the rules of space are dumb in TLJ.
The ship loses speed and stops when it runs out of gas.
Yeah, it's it doesn't stop.
It tilts upwards and goes slow.
It's weird as fuck.
But the bomb, we're out of petrol on railgun cannons like
battleship cannons and artillery bombard the ship with them.
Yeah, again, this everything is better than those bombs.
A defense of the bombs I've seen is Luke's torpedo bends 90 degrees
in episodes six episodes.
Oh, sorry, episode four.
No, that's because you put us you put a you put a spin on them.
Well, they I mean, he's using the force and he sends them down
into the exhaust port, which I don't know.
I don't exactly understand what what he does.
No, that's fine.
Just the target just its force.
This makes Warhammer 40K weapons and vehicle design makes sense.
High bags.
Honorable year for meowler and speckled gas logic.
This is my super chat cherry.
Oh, beautiful.
In Avengers Endgame, will Thanos say the n-word possibly?
There's no guarantee yet.
I hope so.
Is Bilbo saying the n-word?
Can we talk for a second about how shitty of a title Avengers Endgame is?
Should have just gone with annihilation, but no, Hulk had.
What's wrong with Endgame?
It's it's so fucking generic.
They might as well have called it Revelations.
Five, six.
Wait, you think Avengers is like a creative name?
No, I think Infinity War is at least like it doesn't sound like
that to me like some cheap knockoff fucking sci fi that like Age of Ultron.
Yeah, actually, that's that's a pretty bad title, but at least it has Ultron.
Well, see, I like well, I mean, I'm not saying Endgame is great,
but I like that it it's it's what Doctor Strange describes
as what's coming soon at the end of the first film.
So that that's one connection.
The other would be it's kind of the end of a phase four in an era for the MCU,
especially if the original Avengers die.
So having end in the title is relatively strong.
And then, of course, this is going to be a significant
like end for the characters in universe.
Rags just super chat.
Hi, Rags. Hi. Hi, Rags.
I think you as a title.
Everybody's going to be asking what's wrong with you.
Yeah, somebody mentioned Highlander Endgame in the chat.
And that's exactly right.
Like I used it doesn't mean it's not a usable word anymore.
No, leave leave titles like that to to fucking Highlander.
The more like I come up with something better for Avengers.
Come on Avengers Reloaded.
Yes, Avengers like Avengers
Revelation. Yeah, that's that's honestly the level it's on to me.
Avengers Awakening.
Yeah, Awakening, Reveling.
Yeah, any of those.
All right. It's just as bad.
I've been just reloaded.
A better title for this film.
Star Wars. Wow. That's pretty good.
What do you think of bread swords channel?
I have no idea who that is.
Any of you guys? No.
Well, article with Article 13 in Parliament is passed.
What will you do more?
I will have Rags and Wolf upload my videos on an American account.
Solved or just go to a VPN.
There are so many ways around it.
I'm not too concerned.
But I mean, fucking hell, if they nuke every EU YouTube channel,
do you know how detriment like that's going to cause major issues
well beyond people like me?
Oh, geez, it'll be it'll be.
There'll be a shot to the music industry with the millions they make from YouTube.
That's not including every other industry.
I don't think they understand how big it will be.
Yeah, so we'll see how that goes.
Themes are implied.
Of course, you can't you can let the past die.
I kill it, I guess.
Kyle Ben, let's just do it.
We should we should carry on with the video.
And then, well, I've only got a few left.
You keep saying that it slows me down.
Stop it.
Avengers Revengents is the best title posted in the chat so far.
What was it? Avengers Revengents.
I would take that.
What about Avengers?
And then it just reveals four.
Oh, yeah.
That would be fantastic.
The next one.
Avengers. What about Avengers the revenge?
Avengers Avengers, vengeance.
Yeah, the Avengers vengeance.
I still think Avengers avenged because the Avengers who fell get avenged.
And then two hundred euros from Fogel Tom.
Thank you very much.
He said Merry Christmas, I guess.
We draw lines there.
So the next one is Austin White.
I will start back there once we check out more video.
Let's get back to it, shall we?
Yeah, let's do it.
Yeah, you have to remember those days on the biggest complaint.
Oh, wait, sorry.
Wait, have we skipped on the theme overtakes it when he smashes his mask,
symbolically letting go of his obsession with Vader, his first attempt to kill the past.
Beautiful. Bested by a girl who had never held a lightsaber.
A little lampshading for those who still complain about that battle.
Even Snoke forgets he was shot in the abdomen with a bowcaster.
Yeah, I used to actually sort of follow that argument that Ray beat him because he was injured.
But then as he pointed out, if you watch the scene, Kylo is doing just fine.
He's flipping around.
He's heavily slamming against it.
And it's just like, yeah, also he's injured.
He's like, you can't really tell until the film decides he loses.
And it's more tied to the fact that Ray gets a false boost.
He goes, that's a mention.
He are also pointed out like pain is supposed to be like a weapon for the Sith.
Yeah, it doesn't work.
And yeah, that's true.
He should be stronger.
He should be in a a revenger.
And yeah, I agree with Snoke.
He let a little girl beat him and it's stupid.
I don't write these scripts.
And the biggest complaint about Star Wars was that Ray was too powerful.
That's still one of the bigger complaints.
That is. Yeah, that's still very big.
Yes, Kylo trained by Luke and Snoke for possibly a decade.
Like, I'm not even sure exactly what the timeline is.
And so he doesn't just know he doesn't get beaten by Ray.
That doesn't happen.
Well, they probably could have had was like have him and him fight Ray
and Finn at the same time, maybe if that would be more believable
as to how they could.
I still think he would have beat him both.
Kind of. Yeah, he should have.
Those are the days that I think what I'm going to walk out with a laser sword
and face down the whole first no spoilers.
Also, love that he calls it a laser sword like his father
when he was a kid and also because that's his right.
No, like his father when he oh, when and OK.
OK, first off, no one liked child Anakin.
That's not that's not a good argument.
Yeah, I don't think it's an argument.
I think he's just saying I like that he did that.
He's not actually like I'm assuming here I'm giving benefit.
He's not arguing that that's why Luke said it right,
because Luke wasn't alive at that point,
nor would he know about him calling it a laser sword.
And that was the slave child on Tatooine who had no reference
for what they really are other than they light up.
And so he just called it a laser sword.
There's much more of a reason for him to do it than a fucking Jedi.
Plus, nobody is asking Luke to go out with a lightsaber
and literally face down all the first order by himself.
Is that you just help the rest of it?
And then he says, and well, this is the thing he says.
And also because it's his attitude.
So it's like he's not making an argument.
And then he says, in addition, this argument.
I guess the first part is an argument.
I don't know. In terms of sentence structure, either way,
his attitude implies that it's accurate to call it a laser sword.
Like, even if you hate lightsabers, wouldn't you still call them lightsabers?
That's. I don't know, kind of weird.
Dude, the legend of Luke Skywalker and more importantly,
as he'll explain in a bit, the Jedi has been way more alive.
That's a separate fucking film.
The idea of him talking about the Jedi being overblown.
This is not the time everyone in the galaxy is about to be murdered by the Sith.
We need your help.
He's like, yeah, but the Jedi aren't as good as people say.
Like, that's fine.
We can deal with that later, Luke.
Right now, we've got to stop the Sith.
And he's like, yeah, but the Jedi aren't so great.
So yeah, I was like, OK, my fine.
There are seven out of ten.
But this is like Luke is the last Jedi.
All he has to do is just redefine what Jedi is to his liking. Exactly.
Right. Right. The New Testament of the Jedi.
Like, just just leave it like the Jedi Bible.
Yeah, he's Jedi Pope now.
This is awful. Pope Hamels.
Oh, wait, you don't like me milking this big, ugly monster.
Why don't you get Rhino?
He's don't you dare defend this.
He's removing removing away.
He's saying it's that bad.
This is awful and gross and is worth removing.
Oh, no, he's saying, but oh, no.
But you get the point he's making, right?
No, Luke to legend up.
And he responds by spilling milk on his chin and going fishing.
It's just another way of saying I'm not the guy you're looking for.
I just farm and fish now.
I don't think he was that for her benefit, was he?
I think that was just his day to day.
I don't think he was trying to tell Ray this.
Yeah, he would have done it anyway.
He would have done it, whether Ray was there or not.
It's like, oh, yeah, you want to learn about also employing the Jedi.
Well, here you go. Watch me.
I spent years perfecting the worst way to fish.
Implying that if you're a Jedi, you don't eat like if you was a Jedi,
he would be fishing because Jedi don't eat.
Well, if we go by the force unleash to logic,
you can survive for 13 days on the dark side.
So really, really?
Yeah, that's how the game.
Well, force unleash two is an awful, horrible, terrible game.
So I'll just preface it with that.
But like the first cut scene, Vader goes into a room and Starkiller clone
is in the floor and he's like, you've survived for like 13 days.
That's impressive.
And Starkiller is like, oh, the dark force is all I need.
And Vader gets all pissy because he used the force instead of the dark side.
But have you tried the cupcakes and the result?
The dark side cupcakes last longer.
Yeah, well, he can't because he was all chained up.
Oh, you love they have black eyes.
Black eyes. Yeah, just because we're evil.
I don't I don't follow that point, but fine. Whatever.
We save someone for the rest of them going fishing.
It's just another way of saying I'm not the guy you're looking for.
I just wanted to go to the other side of the crevice.
Why didn't he just?
I don't I don't that whole bit doesn't make sense when he stabs the fish.
What does he do then? Does he does he shuffle the thing all the way up?
Yeah, well, the worst way to fish.
Imagine that's a mention once you get the fish up.
What does he do? Does he like put the spear back down?
And then he on one shoulder, he's got the fish in on the other.
He's just holding on to the stick.
Crazy, crazy thing to suggest.
I know I'm crazy for this.
And I know I'm not a filmmaker, so whatever.
But imagine he sat down and got a fishing rod out and started fishing.
And then Ray and him had a chat while he was doing it instead of.
Or he was the force to pluck it out of the water.
He's cut off from the force.
That's a lie. No, that's a lie.
The. I want to know where that big stick came from.
Also, that's some fish.
There are no trees on this island.
Fishing ingenuity.
I don't know if I would put it that way.
He cut down all the trees to make the stick.
He deforested the whole island.
So he can have your so bad to the environment.
Mark. Oh, my God.
You try this.
This guy is defending this.
I mean, I do just a form of fishing image.
Don't you know that the Marubi tribe and off of these
little Gumbo have you been using this fishing technique for easily?
You come home for thousands of years.
Oh, so someone said citizens is reaching that someone said he's reaching.
Have you seen more?
Well, he does his nitpick and reach like, oh.
Hey, at least we reached to the good side.
Yeah, boy. Yeah, we reach with the good side of the force, not the evil.
That makes total sense.
That's we reach with the logic side.
Who are you? Who are you?
Mark may not have loved what they did with Luke, but that did not stop.
No one did his a game.
Just the two distinct deliveries of that question.
Why? Yeah, he's a good actor.
Congratulations, Mark Hamill, the established good actor.
He's a good actor.
He's a good performance in the film as well.
I don't disagree. Yeah.
Right. That's wonderful.
Why are you here?
There were heroes on that mission.
That's what happens in a war.
There's Poe's arc set up.
He starts this film right where he left off in The Force Awakens,
a hero flying by the seat of his pants.
But at this point, there was how was he?
See, Poe in The Force Awakens goes from he's on a special mission,
gets captured, tortured, left for dead, comes back in a blaze of glory
and saves everyone's lives by killing all the troopers and separating the heroes
from the evil people, and then he's sent in to destroy the Death Star
and he nails it and it's not even easy to be like,
so he's like a fucking hot shot flying on the edge of his seat.
It's like he did everything really well as best he could do outside
of maybe a choice in the opening scene, I would say.
Am I the only person who didn't even remember Poe existed
after watching The Force Awakens the first time?
He's got a mind of role technically in the first one.
Yeah, I remember like I watched The Force Awakens
and then I saw all these people talking about like Poe, Poe Poe.
And I was like, who the fuck is Poe?
Yeah, you'd have to rewatch the first one
to probably remember going into TLJ.
But yeah, he's he's like a major role for this film instead of the he's
like in less than half of the film in the first one.
We are setting up his arc.
The resistance needs leaders, not heroes.
I'm not even sure that are those exclusive to each other?
Like resistance leads needs leaders, not heroes.
Someone in the chat said Brown Pilot bad.
Poe is sexy.
Resistance needs leaders, not heroes.
I know it's been a while since imagery like this hasn't been pretty commonplace,
but these space battles are always so well done.
You guys love that when the supremacy and several star destroyers arrive
on a radis that's in the wrong position, by the way,
I don't know if you remember, but the radis is facing them when they arrive
and the radis has to turn before it can leave in the span of time
that they're doing all that.
They release four TIE fighters to assault the enemy fleet.
Four TIE fighters.
That's a that's an insane level of firepower to come from
like several star destroyers, isn't it?
Four TIE fighters.
Yeah, they really they really they really wanted to destroy that ship.
That's oh, yeah, not quite it.
But that's nearly a TIE fighter per star destroyer.
Wow. That's true.
I mean, listen, we've established that fuel is apparently very expensive
and highly sought.
So it makes sense that they like, look, this is.
Look, money costs money, so you can't just throw all your star.
You can't just throw all your TIE fighters
at the last enemy ship to win the war.
You have to space out your spending budget.
OK, I see what you did there.
And oh, I had.
But to be fair, though, I know that my own argument, my own stupid argument
doesn't work because they just lost the dreadnought.
So their overhead just went way down.
So. Yeah, I got nothing.
That's just retarded.
But, you know, regardless of that, he said the explosions
being blocked on the shields, the familiar roar of the TIE fighters,
the tight, tight corridors, the ships flying down never gets old.
Yeah, the effects are really cool.
I agree. Yeah.
Disney's got money.
Explosions being blocked by the shields, the familiar roar of TIE fighters,
the tight corridors that the ships fly.
I guess we've got a ding for each of these. OK.
Just never gets old.
Oh, Carrie, you're already missed this moment between mother and son
that's only conveyed on each actor's face.
But yeah, the that scene with a, you know,
Kylo's having difficulty deciding whether or not you'll kill her.
I'm just like, yeah, it would have been a better scene with better development,
but we've never actually seen them interact ever and have any fucking problem
killing Han Solo. Yeah.
And we can only go from what we've heard.
Like, you know, she loved him.
That's his son.
She's like, oh, OK, that's fine.
Because, you know, part of what makes it's about it's about family.
It's about and that's and that's special.
That's what that is.
So understand the physical limitations.
It says I can also understand the physical limitations.
Six year old woman on wires.
Do they do that with wires or do they do it with CGI?
I think with CGI.
I think he's saying I had the wires.
I think he's saying that this is CGI and that we understand
why it's CGI because you can't put her on wires.
Well, that doesn't really change how silly the scene is, does it?
Yeah, there's you can you can talk about that's not why it's silly.
Well, that's I'd say it's part of the reason I think she looks goofy as CGI.
But that's yeah, that's almost on the list of things that makes this scene retarded.
That's that's lower on the list, I'd say.
Yeah, I mean, oh, great.
Poor, poor visual effects.
Ooh, who cares? Yeah.
Fires, but really finally getting to get to go as far as complementing
all the visual effects.
And then when you highlight a bad one, you're like, it's OK, though,
because you can't put a woman on strings.
It's like, oh, OK.
Six year old woman on wires.
But really finally getting to see Leia have force powers
that she should have had all along.
That's not what it isn't.
There are other ways to do that.
You can't just say, oh, that was cool.
You know, what do you reckon, guys, when they get blocked up by the stones
at the end, if they all looked back and they saw Leia close their eyes
and put a hand out and slowly start bringing the rocks away?
Would that have been better?
As a portrayal of his force power.
Um. What a bit.
I mean, I'm saying it would
doesn't have to be OP, just enough to help the situation.
In this scenario,
he's doing something that we've never even we didn't even know was possible.
And as far as I'm aware, JJ or Ryan or both have both confirmed
that she did not have any training.
This is just the result of adrenaline, basically.
Oh. You know, if you were sent into space,
you would suffocate and you would be both.
You would die of flash freezing at the same time.
You would get burned to a crisp and
you would be depressurized.
That's like four things.
Oh, yeah, I guess so.
You can count the force ranks on force.
Phone calls is worth a win.
And you get that she's not flying, right?
She's just force pulling herself back to the ship.
Yes, I got that.
Yeah, it's the fact that she looks like she's funny.
Is it is it also is she force pulling herself or is she force pushing herself?
Oh, like pushing yourself? Well, I imagine.
You know how a checkmate atheist, let's say she's force pulling the ship to her
and because the ship is so much heavier than her, it ends up pulling her towards
that was grabbed.
Yeah, like if I grabbed a door handle and pulled,
then I would pull myself closer to the door.
Also, yeah, some people are highlighting.
What even is the difference between her pulling herself with the force
through space or flying through space?
It's like that's just semantic, basically.
She's still if there's no gravity, because that's true,
because a plane is pulled by the engines, which are pushed by thrust.
She's not flying. She's falling in style.
That's a reference. Yeah.
But, but, but no, no, not that.
That's not what we're talking about.
That's a dinosaur movie.
Oh, you know what?
He might mention it, but I was just going to say if he doesn't.
Something people point out is she she travels through the supremacy hologram
here and she cuts it in the same way that it gets cut later on in the film.
That's just one of those very minor details.
It's like, oh, OK, neat.
OK, it's still stupid.
He missed is that this is an airlock.
This door isn't opening to space right before force opening this door.
I'm sure she did.
You notice that the airlock door was open. Hang on.
So it doesn't exactly matter now, does it?
He said airlocks have two doors, right?
He said, I'm sure he doesn't actually know.
He's just like, I'm sure that's what happened.
No, she the way they cut it is so quick.
The this is a part of why logistically just you'd show something like that.
But who knows if that door works or if it's a day lock.
And why would all the gas come out if it was pressurized?
Let's imagine if it was still functional.
Don't you think it would have closed when the when the bridge depressurized?
That's the point of an airlock.
To lock the air.
And yeah, and they just cut it to her being on the gurney
to avoid the responsibility of portraying what would have fucking happened
if they opened up into space.
Right before right before opening this door.
I'm sure I'm sure she forced close that one.
Are you are you certain?
Are you really? Yeah, this room's been blasted to ship,
but she's sure of it.
OK, of course.
Someone said, I'm sure I wasn't bored.
He's not flying.
She was subverting expectations in style.
But if this is if this is all like adrenaline,
while she's basically passed out, how is how does she have the presence of mind
to like, oh, I should close this door behind me carefully
and then I'll open this door up.
And I don't listen.
You'll be a lot of people when a lot of people sleepwalk.
They close the door behind them.
That's right. So maybe I'm sure.
I'm sure they do.
I'm sure they do.
I'm sure they do.
It's like the same thing.
It's the credibility there.
Yeah, but I'm sure.
I always loved in my head that she puts her hand on the door.
They open it up and then they all get sucked out and she gets blown out again.
She's like, fuck, I forgot the inference.
It is nice to see Luke light up a little seeing R2, even if for only a second.
So stick to your post and follow me.
You stick to my post.
Why didn't I hold?
Oh, God, here we go.
So this is like one of the fundamental plot issues.
And we're going to get a defense for it.
You guys ready?
Let's go, baby.
Stelpo complaint is it's not even nitpicky.
It's just irritating.
Oh, it's not even allowed to be qualified as a nitpick.
Why? Tell me, can we just like accept that?
Like all the people that like the last Jedi just are not intelligent.
Oh, that's that's going to get you points as a quote wolf.
I don't care.
I mean, look at these people.
This is stupid.
This guy's an idiot.
Maybe he hasn't heard a good argument for it.
OK, no, no, I'm not accepting that.
I'm not accepting that.
People have been talking about this terrible, awful movie for a year now.
You don't get to make an excuse.
You've heard it.
Well, it's just too dumb to understand it.
So his first argument is tell me why the leader needs to answer one pilot.
My answer, that would probably be he's he's demoted to captain, as he says.
Call me whatever you want.
Commander, captain.
I can't remember the actual.
Let me get it up in the script.
Just clarify.
And yes, let me pull up my last Jedi script
that I always keep by my side.
Google it.
I'm not a retard.
Hold on. Hold on.
I'm axing you.
I just need to play the movie and get to that scene real quick.
I need to figure it out myself.
It is the next Star Wars universe.
Yeah, so he went from fleet commander to captain.
Now, I'm not a military guy.
Pretty sure captain is a high rank. Yes.
So did you just say military?
Mule or Terry, yes.
Pretty sure it's a high rank.
And so to say, why is she to answer one pilot?
I'd be like, tell me why she shouldn't answer her captain.
Tell me why she shouldn't.
I can tell you why she she should is that the captain is concerned
that she's killing everyone.
Is that a good enough reason to tell him why she's not?
I don't know.
Tell me why you hired a woman with purple hair in any position of authority.
If you read the law, you'll find out she's been dying here
since a very young age, which makes sense.
OK, well, she was an idiot from a young age, so she's more considered
dying here than leading her people.
Listen, if even the lowliest grunt on the ship
went up to you as the leader and said, what's the plan?
Well, why should she answer them?
What to try and come across as competent?
Anyway, yeah, so I'm less concerned with this part.
I'll always I'll always do what we did, but just right.
There's four arguments to make about when she should have told him the plan.
You can fight them all or at least middled them all.
But you can't fight the last one, which is when he performs the mutiny.
That's when she has to tell him the plan.
Otherwise, she kills everybody.
And there's no argument against it.
So we'll wait for him to get to that, I guess.
So Andrew, Andrew Dunkey in the chat said in the U.S.
Army captains can hold command of several hundred soldiers.
There's only 400 left at the beginning of this film.
Oh, so so he could be in charge of everybody as a captain.
Like if she dies, would he take control?
Well, if you watch the scene again, because I did recently
as part of something that's coming out soon, but
they say next in command as a sort of like do and Poe looks up like,
oh, shit, is it me?
And then she goes Admiral Holder or Vice Admiral Holder.
And then he's like, wait, who?
And then he has to ask someone who it is.
I think he did expect.
I think the film is portraying that he expected to be in power.
Which is interesting.
Well, even if you take that, if if Holdo dies,
God forbid, then he gets ejected out of the air a lot mysteriously.
Who would be in charge?
Would Poe be the one in charge now?
Is there anyone between Holdo and Poe anymore?
It's a good question.
I actually don't know because everybody died in the bridge, didn't they?
I firmly believe that Akbar is still alive, floating around in space.
He uses the force to come back.
He uses it.
He uses the force.
He just gets his direction wrong, I guess.
And he's still floating out there, still searching.
In episode nine, he'll show up just like Luke did at the end of this movie.
And everyone will be like, Akbar, we saw you fly out of the bridge.
You'll be like, it was a trap.
Dude, he force pulls himself into the supremacy.
And he's like, I'm OK. Oh, oh, it looks like who the fuck are you?
Who are you, a fish man?
It was a trap all along.
Wait, why Akbar's theme?
Jumps back out of the airlock.
Why Akbar's theme?
Ocean man.
Quiet, fuck it.
Why his theme is ocean man?
Beautiful stuff.
Anyway.
Possibly tracked, which would lead any rational person
to believe there is a traitor on board.
What?
Any rational that's why you have to argue it,
because when this first the film first came out,
everyone was talking about how there was a mole on board.
And that's why it makes sense.
There's just no line of dialogue that follows that even a little bit.
But people had to get invented because otherwise the film doesn't make sense.
It's like it makes sense if you think about it with with all this writing
that doesn't exist. And it's like, oh, yeah.
It makes sense that Poe, of all people, is the traitor.
Possibly to.
He blew up the one.
One conversation could have made this a whole lot more sensible.
Yeah, you have that that woman who announced Admiral Holdo here
and holdo talk about how we're relatively sure
this couldn't have happened without a mole on board.
Yeah, so we need to keep the nation close to the chest.
I mean, if someone just like took a spray bottle and sprayed
Ryan Johnson in the face, took away his script and said, no,
then every paper would have made more.
Yeah, then everyone would have just made more sense.
No, boy.
And Poe, Poe destroyed the Starkiller base
and the dreadnought and all that shit.
They're like, you could you could be a traitor.
I like that he said she owes him nothing.
It's like it's not about what she owes him.
That's not a commander.
Those things to the people that she's leading.
Yeah, strange argument.
But again, this this lonely hold up for now and it won't even hold up for now,
but it'll only hold up against some reasoning
until we reach the mutiny scene anyway.
We tracked, which would lead any rational person
to believe there's a traitor on board.
No, because Finn establishes later after he's forgotten it for no reason
that they have a hyperspace tracker and that's a thing he's aware of because he mopped it.
Oh, yes, 12 hours after destroying the Starkiller base,
Poe decided, you know what, the order guys aren't all that bad.
Maybe I was wrong this whole time.
He just looks through his window at the destroyed Starkiller.
Like it has a tear in his eye.
I regret this one of my done.
That was a beautiful little piece.
All they wanted to do was destroy planets in peace.
We took that away from them.
I got a PM, by the way, saying they're not watching this,
because we're yet again covering Star Wars.
There are three podcasts since covering Star Wars.
I figured that that's that's a lot of hours.
We've got like twenty two hundred people watching.
Well, these are all people requested out of this.
We still pull in more viewers than the drunken peasants right now.
That's right.
And we're not even we're not even drunk.
I don't believe it, but not all of us anyway.
The idea is the we'll cover, you know, whatever.
But if the majority of our fan bases are requesting us to cover a video,
we kind of want to cover it, you know, just be like, well, this is what that's what
because you have is certainly about the the audience as well.
But, yeah, we did we did the subjectivity stream.
The Eric Taksin stream, the Jurassic World stream.
You know, it's not just Star Wars saying what.
What were you shooting on Joseph Anderson about?
He said talking about Star Wars.
Get back to shooting on Joseph Anderson.
The these his argument that everything is subjective in videos.
Uh huh. So if you hear a statement like
this is not a horror game.
Yeah, if someone tells you summer is not a horror game, that's not them
making an argument, that's them sharing their feelings.
Someone said, what is a fab stand for?
I think it stands for electronic fab.
It's it's one of those newfangled Internet terms.
Every frame a pause.
It's right there in the logo that we only put on screen every once in a while,
isn't it? Because right now on the screen is a fucking picture
of this lady's fucking gigantic nose.
She wears she wears a halo.
Oh, you're talking about. Oh, oh.
Well, some. Yeah, is that Ben Shapiro's sister, do you think?
That's unfortunate. That is a very large.
That's a Dorito.
You know, that's a very large anyway.
Holdo knows for sure about Poe is that he was dressed down by Leia
and therefore she may no longer trust him.
But she says she likes him at the end of the film.
You remember that part where she's like, yeah, I like this guy.
He's cool. Even though he performed a beauty.
Why did he why did he ding that?
Um.
I guess he's saying it pans out that Leia would demote this man
that she wouldn't trust him, but he's also forgetting the part where Poe says,
hey, Leia, is it OK if I jump in my X-wing and start blowing things up
when she told him that's not what you should do?
And she says, go for it.
She says, do it because that's the smart thing to do.
And then the hangar gets exploded because this film is retarded.
So the idea that the Leia's last thing she said to Poe's that of disapproval
is just like, that's not true either. So.
Um, it really is a.
It's an utter mess.
You have to cherry pick the parts that might follow the conclusion
to make the show make sense.
You may no longer trust him.
It's also possible that she didn't even have a fully formed plan at this point.
Hey, it's possible she doesn't even have a plan.
Yes, I understand that that that would be something you tell Poe.
You'd be like, unfortunately, we don't have a plan of action.
We're constructing.
You have any suggestions, Captain?
Hey, unfortunately, I'm an idiot and I shouldn't have been put in this role,
but here we are. Unfortunately, unfortunately, I'm a diversity.
It's like so I don't really know what to do.
The idea that it's like, OK, so you've destroyed the Starkiller base
while leading a fleet to it and you did the exact same thing
just now with the dreadnought, but we don't want you involved
in making our plan because you're useless.
He's like, oh, OK, I'll walk away and do nothing.
I blew up Starkiller base in the dreadnought and stuff, but OK.
Thanks. That little burn from Kylo Sabre in The Force Awakens got stitched up.
Stone hut alarm clock.
Why isn't it a win?
It's just nothing that's neutral.
She got woken up because some of the sun got in through her hut.
OK. Oh, my God.
This relationship. Oh, my God.
How is this relationship building?
How is this a relate?
I mean, they have a relationship in the same way that like if I go to Walgreens
so and I buy something and I go to the cashier and check out,
like we have a relationship to get to get matter on the writing structure.
Right. So when milking, when making this film,
he would have been like, OK, milking the Star Wars franchise for all it's worth.
Ryan was like, we have to start out with them hating each other
because that's a result of TFA and Han Solo's death.
But at the end of the film, we need Rey to be so invested in Kylo
that she even nearly sacrifices herself to try and get into the dark light side.
It's like, OK, how do we do that?
We'll have them Skype call and it's like, OK, let's ignore the mechanics of that
and just say, fine, that works.
It's like, what can we have happen in these pieces of dialogues?
Well, scene one, Kylo is like, what's going on here?
And she's like, I hate you.
And then he's like, yeah, well, oh, Luke Skywalker's there isn't isn't he?
And she's like, hmm. And then it ends.
Scene two is her being like, you're a monster.
And he's like, yes, I am.
And he's like, you hate me just now as you did always.
And she's like, yes.
Scene three is him going, Luke made me a monster, by the way.
And she's like, shit, really?
And then scene four is them touching hands.
And so to me, I'm just like there was no fucking development there
other than but Mahler, they used shot, reverse shot.
Don't you understand how revolutionary that is?
That's a cinema win. Who would have thought?
The language, the film language of shot, reverse shot.
He really was just trying to use any words to make that more profound, wasn't he?
But yeah, overall, what I'm saying is that
you find out that someone shot your best friend and then that person
after a couple of days has passed tells you I was shot in the stomach
when I was a kid by my dad and I recovered, but that's why I did it.
And then you go, man, you know, I understand now.
I get I get it. Why you killed Hans?
I would die for you.
That doesn't make any sense even a little bit.
And the relationship is not developed. It's just confusing.
They're both angsty in the final scene.
And you're just like, why? What's happening here?
Anyway, to tell you they're in the same space while only actually show.
I love it. Yeah, as you just said, it's like it tells us they're in the same space.
It's like, I mean, assuming that they communicated, so I guess they have to be
the film language of shot, reverse shot.
I think I might actually make a note of that one just to put it in my video.
Is that as you know, just oh, shit, wrong one.
Is that going to be in your April Fool's video?
There's no my April Fool's video has more quotes in it now
that will allow for it to be in one script.
It's going to be a fucking mess, a nightmare.
But it's going to be a series that is going to span over two years.
I'm still with twenty five hours long.
I'm hoping to get the TFA finished as a series like a month ahead of April.
That would be nice. But God, like it's taken so long to edit.
I'm getting concerned about that.
But I mean, I've got one. I've got one ready.
You can decide.
All you need to do is turn on your mic and talk for 10 hours.
It's not that hard. That's one day of work.
Yeah, yeah, that's just how videos work.
It's just a video game review.
It's just a movie review. Just talk about it for 10 minutes.
Yeah, it's easy, man.
Yeah. Be like IGN and make a three minute and I was to make it be like IGN
and make a three minute video, a one hundred fifty hour game like the Witcher three.
When Joseph Anderson releases review of Witcher three, you're going to watch it both.
No, because even if it has even if I agree with every point,
just the fact that it's Joseph want to see it.
Oh, that's bigotry. That's bigotry right there.
Prejudice. Why do you hate white people?
Yeah, what's that about? What do you hate Canadian people?
Look, I'm a little bit more into shibes personally.
Oh, yeah. What about reindeer shibes?
Hey, I mean, I'll take what I can get. I'll have you know.
Hey, they're in the same.
All right.
Why did you what were you you were looking at like the other side of the hut?
I guess I guess what she would have seen.
This is the thing I always assume.
I guess what they see is the person but in their environment.
Maybe.
So she sees Kylo standing over the other side.
That even hurts the point because she wants to kill him.
Yeah, I know. Well, she gets over that pretty quickly, I guess.
Okay.
That's part of why I don't like it.
I actually kind of enjoyed the fact that she still vigorously hates him because she should.
Yeah.
Yeah. But the whole point, of course, is that but she would die for him in the end.
They're like, that was quick.
Yeah, it was quick. Yeah.
Oh, and for those wondering, Christmas is the day I'm posting part one of my TFA series.
It is two hours and 42 minutes long.
So get ready for that. And there's no gameplay footage being used as a I mean,
there is some gameplay footage in there, but it's very small in your referential, but
it's highly edited is why it took so long. Okay.
So you can't listen to it this time, guys, you have to peel your eyes onto the screen.
Wait, peel your stick your glue your eyes to the screen.
There you go.
English, you have to force pull your eyes to the screen.
Nominal way of allowing these two to get to know each other.
You're not doing it.
You have you have to magnetize your eyes to the screen.
Yeah, for we'll kill you.
Yeah, let's call it what final
Whoa, what?
What?
I guess he's talking about Luke's move.
Why would you call it final solution?
Awkward, but okay.
Those words have a little baggage.
Just a little bit.
Solution shadowing.
Can you see my surroundings?
You're going to pay for what you did.
I can't see yours.
So Adam Driver is amazing, but I love how he's more interested in the logistics of what's
happening rather than how or why it's happening plays into his cocky attitude.
Yeah, he's a good actor.
Yeah, I agree with every.
This is the thing I don't.
Well, what do you what do you guys take on Daisy Ridley's acting?
Awful.
I don't think it's very good at all.
I mean, just look at her face in this pause screen right now.
And that's pretty much what I think about.
Oh, there we go.
Yeah.
See, okay.
Look, here's the thing.
I will summarize her acting ability by the fact that she can never close her mouth.
But you just said off.
Wow.
Well, she has to make a sound eventually.
Yeah, I think there's barely anyone who actually like has a human face in this movie.
That is a good actor other than maybe this guy and definitely Mark Hamill.
Everyone else is kind of.
Suck.
I don't know.
I guess I'd say all right.
Every I'd say everybody's fine except Luke Mark, who's very good.
Kylo, I genuinely think is very emotive.
Certain scenes, he's just emotive rather than a strong actor is what I would say.
But you know what I would say is is maybe it doesn't maybe it's not so much the acting
that I have a problem with.
It's just that I don't I can't like feel any connection to any of the characters.
Yeah, character sucks.
And maybe it's more like a problem with with that.
It is difficult to judge the acting with the characters are so flat.
Yeah, that's the problem.
Everyone feels flat.
Like they all feel just very bland.
And that that I don't know a lot of these actors.
So maybe they're all really perfectly good.
But well, I can say that in character so good.
You don't know the difference between the two.
I can say that in Ex Machina, Hux and Poe are actually both great actors.
That's true.
Yeah, I've seen Ex Machina and yeah, Poe Poe guy was was actually good in that.
But I can say that Daisy Ridley has absolutely no talent so ever and should stop.
I think there is the scene where she said about Han Solo dying.
I thought was I don't know, I question what you need to do to be better.
Because, you know, when like when Han Solo dies, her reaction,
even though I think it's overblown, it doesn't make sense.
She's known for like five minutes.
It's still well done for what she's supposed to do.
I just think that the majority of her scenes, she's very, very cardboard.
So are you saying that she did it okay and that the way she did it?
I think she did it okay the way that she did it.
Okay.
Anyway, let's show.
The logistics of what's happening rather than how or why it's happening plays into his cocky attitude.
It's a power that Jedi have that lets them control people and make things float.
Impressive.
Every word in that sense was wrong.
Honesty.
It's not though, because she does that later on.
But that's literally two correct statements about the force.
She does both of them in The Force Awakens within like 20 minutes of-
Luke is an asshole in this film.
So he's like, no, it's about the balance of the world.
I should have the force.
That's the film.
Yeah.
She is literally correct.
Yes, I feel it.
That's the force.
Really?
Wow.
It's really strong with you.
Force lessons.
I mean, yeah, I thought that was funny.
Yeah, it was the one funny joke in the whole movie.
Yeah, man.
I don't think it matched the character, but it was funny.
With this far into the film, and I'd say that we've had a couple of surface level
pros that we agree with.
We're like, yeah, these things are the kind of shit that I would say about a Transformers
film if I watched it.
I'd be like, yeah, that joke specifically was okay.
That piece of acting was okay.
Black robots can't read.
Is that a thing?
Yeah.
In the second movie, there's two Autobots that are voiced by black guys and they can't read.
They're very stereotypically ghetto black.
They speak in Eubonics, the whole film.
And they can't read.
Well, in Michael Bay, nice stuff.
One of them says literally verbatim, no, no, we can't do that reading thing.
We don't read.
Oh, I remember, yeah.
It's like, oh, god, what are you doing, Michael?
Bumblebee pees on someone.
An optimist is like, Bumblebee, stop lubricating the bad.
It's like, what?
What?
See, he's pissing on them.
And that's funny.
Yes, joke.
And between it all.
Someone in the chat pointed out that one of them is voiced by SpongeBob.
Oh, Tom, can you?
Yeah, Tom can.
Well, no, he played like the little tiny role in like the very beginning of the movie.
Yeah.
He was voiced by a black guy with SpongeBob.
And between it all.
Balance.
That force does not belong to the Jedi.
Man, that's like, haven't I been saying that?
I get that your appreciation of this explanation comes down to preference
in your own interpretation.
This is what I've always thought.
There was never a question that the force doesn't belong to the Jedi
because the force is also with the Sith.
So it ultimately, if anything, it belongs to both of them.
But I think we can all agree that you can use the force and not be either of them
because all you have to do is understand the force and not follow a religion and done.
Yeah.
I mean, if you're not part of the Jedi, I mean, these are these are structured organizations
with, you know, there's membership and you get trained and you train other people
and they have like buildings and stuff and the register.
They're probably fucking pay taxes and shit.
I'm not religious.
I just have a personal relationship with the force.
I just did that.
Do the other films definitively say the force belongs to the Jedi?
No.
No, it's basically the thing that binds all life together.
It's kind of everybody's.
It's just a thing.
It's like the fundamental nature of life or something.
This was established in Empire 40 years ago.
And he's like, see, I've been saying this.
And it's like, who hasn't been saying this?
Congratulations.
You've conjured up a point that no one ever made.
I've been telling him the earth is round.
I haven't I've been saying that I get that your appreciation of this explanation
comes down to preference in your own sadly.
There are people that think it's flat.
There's this misconception that the Jedi are always the.
That's not what he said.
Well, Luke said the force doesn't belong to the Jedi and to say that is vanity.
Can't you see that?
Which by the way, I agree with, but I don't know that that was ever in contention.
But here he's saying the Jedi's aren't always the good guys,
which is later.
Luke says that he didn't say in this scene.
And even if that's the point is that even if this is the point that Luke's making
that doesn't that shouldn't be something that stops him from doing good.
If his problem is that the Jedi aren't always good,
then that should drive him to do good things.
Apparently, journalists are attacking on Twitter.
Yeah, I saw that.
That's crazy.
Is that a thing?
I want to have a look.
He's getting kicked off YouTube.
No, no, he better fucking not check.
Check Twitter.
This is more as you may know, a terrible video to describe which content we allow
and don't allow on YouTube.
Your video, Stephen, rapey, verse, or how I learned to stop worrying and love to fuse
was flagged for review upon review, determined that it violates our guidelines,
removed it from YouTube and assigned a community guidelines strike.
So he's lost.
Give a shout out to hateful anti-Semitic YouTube channel.
Oh, my God.
PewDiePie promotes Nazi propaganda.
YouTube channel.
Invidity and video ending.
T-series idea.
Where are you guys seeing this Twitter?
I just I just googled our YouTube and that's what's popping up.
The idea that he is going to lose his channel.
Thanks to being promoted.
Really, I think so.
He's lost a video.
Apparently, he's not out yet, though.
I don't know.
He has videos of disturbing.
They often use the guys of film, anime and cartoon criticism to convey anti-Semitic
and hateful thoughts or imagery.
He radicalizes fear.
They're jokes.
That doesn't work.
That doesn't work anymore.
Oh, my God.
Are you really going to kick off like the one good YouTuber left?
Yeah, I mean, go back to my Outlast series and I actually promote
ER as well.
So how long until I have to get booted off?
He's in my fucking sub box.
Yeah, that's how much I enjoy his channel.
And yet he makes jokes.
He's he's he's addressed this in other videos as well.
That sucks.
Yeah, if that's the first one that's down, he's he's reuploaded it on a different site now.
That's what he did with get out, too.
But they kept taking it down on every site he posted it on.
Yeah.
Unfortunately, if you can take down his Steven Universe and get out videos,
it's not long for the rest of his videos, to be honest.
Luckily, the get out one was tweeting about this are Jared Holt and Hassan
Piker, of course.
I don't know who's fucking lunatics.
Just on Pikers, Brown Fabio.
Brown Fabio.
Yeah, like he is like a young Turks, the young one of the young.
Oh, is he like one of these?
Cenk Uyghur is like nephew.
Oh, well, there we go.
Cenk, can we just like kick your nephew in the jaw?
Wait, PewDiePie, he apologized to PewDiePie for a tweet.
He sent him and he said it's because of it.
Apparently, he worded it in a way that's going to be used as ammo against PewDiePie now.
So I'm trying to find what it is.
Oh, so he he's clipped PewDiePie promoting him.
He is put in a tweet saying subscribe to PewDiePie for based and red pill content.
Thanks, Senpai.
So the fact that he's put red pill in there as a joke.
What?
People are going to take the tweet and say that this red this this alt right YouTuber
or some shit is celebrating PewDiePie for promoting him.
It's as admitted he's about you know, red pill is a red pill these days is used in the most like
nonspecific of context now.
Like if you've been red pilled on and then it could be someone as arbitrary as
the last Jedi being good, you know, like it's but it'll be used as a political bait.
Like he has.
He has.
I get the feeling that he might be like he might go by the whole atheism is unstoppable thing
where he just keeps making new channels and he keeps coming back.
I don't know his first channel now, by the way.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, I don't know how he does it.
He just magically like pops up on his old channels like years later.
Because like, all right, this one's back.
It's it's crazy.
So stupid.
Just what a shame when when's this insanity with people like getting their panties in a
bunch over a stupid joke going to end because it's so fucking stupid.
Because see what's happened is he promoted PewDiePie promoted obviously and then people
would have checked it out thanks to PewDiePie because the amount of times they've been
circling him to just get any articles that get clicks and so they're like who's this
ER guy and they're still watching his videos.
They take anything they can find and put it into articles.
Send it to YouTube as reported content.
Yeah, I can't wait for JK Rowling to make a Twitter post about it.
Just like she always does because she's an absolutely worthless human being that can't
make a good political opinion to save her good and significant little life.
Fucking timeline is filled with Michael Cira Kylo, right?
I'll try and oh well you know what we got we got a 10 holy Jesus in the last two days
he gained 17,000 subs from that shout out.
Yeah and look what else he's gaining like fucking removal.
Oh my god, that is the best.
That's a good one.
Mahler, Mahler, Mahler, please, please put that up on screen.
Oh, everyone needs to see this.
Well hang on there's a couple of them.
Uh, I can't got this.
Oh god, this this one's going to be difficult.
Oh my god, that one's really good too.
I'm confused but is this oh is this originally the picture is supposed to be Michael Cira's
and they flipped out.
I'm not sure.
Like Kylo read it.
Oh, that terrible hair.
That one.
Wait, this the way they shop this like fucking hell.
Yeah, all links are in the chat.
Oh man.
Okay, I've gone through.
All right, well, we well, that's we let's continue because fucking out.
I'm genuinely really sad to hear that about er and I hope that his channel doesn't go down, but
he's gonna be really mad at this case.
Like er is way too popular to be his videos and like I hate to say this because apparently it
needs to be said his videos are really well made.
He makes really good arguments for analysis on storytelling.
Yes, he has edgy jokes in them, but I don't know that meal rags or wolf don't have that too.
So I'm fucking logic probably has at least one edgy joke.
Right.
So all of us are on the chopping block.
Yes, I'm sure we all have fucking edgy jokes.
Jesus Christ to be like he's a Nazi propagandist is like really.
Really, apparently, of course, if you listen to Jared Holt, you'll fucking believe anything.
Anyway, it's not enough that they can say that it's not the case.
Civil War two.
It's coming.
It's coming.
American Civil War over YouTube.
Split the two sides of your country into pro YouTube and anti YouTube.
But I've been saying that I get that your appreciation of this explanation comes down
to preference in your own interpretation.
This is what I've always thought.
There's this misconception that the Jedi are always the good guys,
but every movie has given us at least one reason to doubt that, especially the prequels.
I find this to be only second to Yoda's explanation in Empire.
His explanation of the force being that, you know, it's like it's life.
It's death.
It's dark.
It's light as well.
When Ray is doing all of the air back and forth, like that's fine with me.
But Yoda, I don't know, is it better or worse?
Pretty much the same explanation as for whether or not the Jedi are good people.
Again, he hasn't gone over that yet.
I mean, literally, all you have to do is just copy and paste what he already said in Empire.
You don't get brownie points for doing the same thing we did 40 years ago.
Dexter Jester is in the chat.
70 76 for corrects again.
Mile took the gun.
Stalin took the guns.
You guys remember that shit?
Yeah.
Destroy the child.
Corrupt them all.
His astonishment that she went right to the dark.
That Doom video you sent me, man.
I love how his astonishment that she went right to the dark side initially
gives him reason to be afraid, but ultimately informs his decision to return.
Huh?
Is that what she did?
Went to the dark initially?
Gives him reason to be afraid, but ultimately informs his decision to return.
The fact that she went to the dark initially ultimately informs his decision to return.
Where are you getting that from?
Uh, like, I'm trying to be really fair right now.
How do you interpret what happens in this film as Luke comes
to return for Ray because of her initial choice to go to the dark side?
Maybe he was worried.
Uh, don't, I don't follow that.
I'm just gonna have to skip that one.
I don't understand.
I give him reason to be afraid, but ultimately informs his decision to return.
But with the worst people in the galaxy.
Great.
Guys, it's just a joke.
The worst people in the galaxy the first time were the Smugglers and Mos Eisley.
Now it's the capital residents from Hunger Games.
And I-
Okay.
That was a joke?
I'm confused.
Because the movie didn't make it seem like that at all.
Yeah, when Rose explains how they bombed, they had experiments on a hometown that got everyone
in squalor and killed and how they keep slaves here and how they benefit off war,
which is immoral.
That didn't seem like a joke to me.
Do you think ER is on this planet?
Sorry?
ER is on this planet.
Oh, right.
I thought you meant our planet.
And I was like, yeah.
No, I can't tell by obviously, because he's a he's a horrible person.
The worst in the galaxy.
I guess the joke is that the rich people are oppressing the poor people.
Is that a joke?
What?
I don't know, but I have to use the restroom anyway, so you can think about it while I do.
Yeah, someone, someone in the chat even pointed out they have child slaves.
It's not a joke.
I don't think it's a joke.
Yeah.
Well, I'd have to ask what he thinks is I don't think he thinks that part is a joke.
I don't know what he's going for with.
It's a it's a joke.
I don't know.
Anyway, I'll do some super chats quickly.
We'll do all of them until rags gets back.
Cinema winds has a habit of giving passes to stupid decisions made in movies,
such as in a quiet place in that the humans are irrational as an excuse.
We're probably going to cover that one because me and Wolf.
We don't just dislike a quiet place.
It's not that simple.
Dear, I don't hate that movie.
It's so bad.
And I understand why it's cool as concept, but it's just so badly written.
It's unbelievable.
I will light speed through Mount Doom.
Holdo faggots.
I'm late.
Have they got to the point where he says being good with the staff
is like getting good with a lightsaber because it's the same.
Oh, God, if he says we haven't gotten to that yet.
We Swedes can be rather red pilled at times.
That means you're an alt right YouTuber and you'll get your video removed.
Don't ever say that.
Seems like rags has the same alcohol tolerance as dark matter.
Twenty five, twenty five, two beers and trashed.
He said there was there was something else going on.
I think rags has just been using the cocaine.
I think that's what's going on.
It makes sense.
I'm paying you to keep Sargon of Askorn off our precious Efap.
Well, what about the people who are paying him to keep him on?
Because he's been on every episode up till now.
He's just been silent.
Yeah, he's quiet.
Don't know if this dude mentions the hyperspace kamikaze thing.
It made me think why not make hyperspace missiles could probably
destroy a planet with the right explosives and physics.
Yeah, but don't think about it.
Efap more like E621 rags your goof.
What does that mean?
Don't worry about it.
Is that a reference to something weird?
Oh, yeah, it's something you should.
You're better off just never looking up.
Well, like Eric Taksan's Twitter.
Like the kind of thing we should just stay away from it.
Actually, I would argue that Eric Taksan, of course.
And yeah, ghost.
Yeah, chat.
I swear to God, don't look at Eric Taksan's Twitter.
If you want your retinas to stay intact, don't look at it.
I'm not is his nudes.
Yes, and of course, of course, Mahler had to send it.
And I demanded I like spammed him telling him to delete the message.
I was like, look at what's on his Twitter.
This is I said, I thought you'd get bad for that.
But apparently you're allowed to do it.
You could have just asked me, do you want to see Eric's nudes?
And I would have been like, no, don't say why would you ever answer yes to that question?
Well, well, that's the reason why you shouldn't have just sent it to me.
I mean, I had to traumatize you, Wolf.
It's my job.
It's not what I wanted to see, Mahler.
You know what?
It was unfair for me because I was I was countering arguments.
And then I was like, oh, it's unfair for you.
But it's not unfair for me.
Because I was like, let's go to his profile to see because I thought he'd
muted me or banned me.
I was like, oh, he hasn't banned me.
And I was like, oh, there's other things on this page.
Oh, my.
And and yeah, I wanted you to suffer the same pain that I did.
Call me selfish, but I didn't want to say you're selfish.
But you're horrible.
Am I the only one who felt so there was a checklist that is it's it felt like it was
made by a committee, as they say, a film, but it was an incompetent committee.
Well, you're fucking up my math for the eFap time conversion.
Well, it looks like we're going to have three hours in, you know, it's still normal.
And then 58 minutes and then high rags from rags.
That's where I am.
We will come back to it at another break.
So yeah, just to catch everyone up, the joke against the rich people
accounted by it was just a joke.
Don't take it seriously.
Now it's the capital residents from Hunger Games.
And I don't really care how terrible they are.
I want a convertible yacht space yacht and I'll do anything to get it.
Why is it a win?
Is it?
He wants the thing in the film.
It's a win.
I don't understand.
And like, how is war is the only thing that gets you this rich, not like selling
and dealing and what, the hyper fuel stuff or being in charge of massive merchant guilds or
morality question here.
So it's like you sold guns to these people and these people are oppressing people.
That makes you responsible, or at least you're evil.
What if you sell fuel?
Does that make you equally responsible?
You're selling what allows them to travel.
Does that make you evil too?
I mean, if they traveled to bad things.
What if you sell food to the people who are doing bad things?
You're keeping them alive by allowing them to eat your food.
How far does this go?
How does this work?
Questions for the ages.
Deplatform the first order.
I'm not even sure how you could be offended by this in our galaxy since it's so clearly not true.
War is profitable, but Bezos, Gates and Zuckerberg don't sell weapons.
Yeah, they're way more evil.
Wait, so he's saying you can't connect it to ours because the 1% in our world aren't
profiting off war, they're profiting off other things.
Which the point is they're profiting off immoral markets by the film.
But if it's not specifically war.
I agree, cinema wins.
We're not currently in a large country wide war right now on Earth.
I get that, but I don't think the film was saying,
you know, during World War Two, people who benefited from that, they were dicks.
Even though Oscar Schindler was one of the people who benefited from
the war up until he decided to actually help people.
Assuming Schindler's list is accurate, obviously, I don't know for sure.
But yeah, that's a complicated statement to make.
I think it's much more simple than he hopes it is.
This film is definitely condemning people who benefit from war or immoral markets,
which on paper sounds reasonable.
But then you sort of look into it.
And again, like I said, it's like if you're a hot dog, fucking stand,
and you sell a hot dog to Darth Vader, does that make you immoral?
Or does that just make your hot dog stand?
No platform for Nazis.
Sounds like Marge Simpson when you said that.
I think they sell something much worse.
Material and immaterial happiness.
Social commentary.
Don't at me.
I thought you just said it wasn't, though.
Unless he's joking.
I don't know.
I don't know either.
Kind of.
Zuckerberg don't sell weapons, man.
Ironically, they sell something much worse.
Material and immaterial.
He's saying that Zuckerberg and the rest in our world sell material and immaterial happiness.
Any kind of happiness is worse than selling weapons.
I don't know what he's saying here because he ends with like a joke.
Social commentary.
Social commentary.
It's like I don't know.
But what's the comment?
I don't know.
Is orange man bad?
Selling happiness is worse than selling weapons to space Nazis.
Don't know.
Don't at me.
I love Amazon.
PBA is acting lethargic because his belly is filled with gold coins.
Okay.
All right.
Sure.
Okay.
Okay, I agree.
Say what you will about canto bite.
I can't help but see it as just an expertly crafted thorough scene.
So that's a play on rather than an actual argument to will about canto bite.
I can't help.
Yeah, he just defended canto bite.
Well, not even like the most fervent TLJ defenders defend canto bite.
I hear everything defended.
He said, Hey, at least it's not long.
That's not much of a defense though.
My favorite defense.
But look what he said.
I can't help but see it as a Justin expertly crafted thorough scene.
Justin throws the guy who plays the guy with the pendant.
So he basically spent his time in canto bite not defending canto bite.
The guy with the pendant.
Yeah, the pin, whatever it is.
Justin Paul Thoreau is an American actor, comedian, film producer, and screenwriter
known for his work with film director David Lynch in Mulholland Drive and Inland Empire.
What does this have to do with anything?
I don't understand.
He's also known as screenwriter for films such as Tropic Thunder and Iron Man 2.
He's making the best Iron Man.
Weird play.
He's saying it's just an expertly crafted thorough scene.
Get it?
No, I get that it's wordplay.
But what is the play?
Justin throws the guy's name.
And it also name of the actor with the thing in the movie.
If you replace I can't help but see.
Wait, I can't help but see as Justin.
Okay, wait a minute.
I think this is supposed to be I can't help but see it as a Justin.
No.
So I'm just trying to figure out what the joke is.
It's replaced that it's wordplay.
He's placed just an expertly crafted thorough scene.
I get it.
Oh, the in replace with Anne, right?
I get it.
But yeah, so he's asking what the other side of it is.
No, like I understand what words he's replacing.
I don't understand what the fucking joke is.
The it's a wordplay.
That's that alone.
It's a wordplay that goes nowhere, though.
He's just what do you want me to say?
That's the joke.
I'm sorry.
Just someone in the chat said he's the guy throwing the dice.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, well, that's fine.
You put the actor's name in a sentence.
That means nothing.
You defended Kanto bite for this.
Well, I'm assuming he's going to add a win on the counter after this,
even though this is a meta line about an actor.
And then he's so I can see it as just an expertly crafted thorough scene.
Yeah, he added a win.
I don't care how this works.
Okay, I like this direct answer to why is Ray good?
Why are you swinging a backhand?
That literally makes no sense.
I like this direct answer to why is Ray good with a lightsaber so quickly?
Like, what do you mean?
Sings it around quickly.
She good with her staff.
No, that's no, no, absolutely not.
If she's not even you'll fucking buy anything.
No, that's not how it works.
Pish knew is an expert with a staff does not equal expert with lightsaber.
How many times do people have to say this?
And two, she's not even good with the lightsaber in that scene.
She accidentally kills a rock.
How do you even do that?
She fucked up a rock.
The rock didn't mow.
No, it's not even training.
It's just her fiddle fucking around with a lightsaber.
No, that's all you need to say that just no.
Stop it.
Put it down here.
Put her down.
No, it's it's it was delivered.
Oh, my silver play button has been delivered.
Oh, it's.
Yeah, I'll pick that up tomorrow.
I guess neat.
Cool.
I can see the Jedi is failure.
It's not true at the height of their powers.
They allowed Darth Sidious to rise, create the empire and wipe them out.
I agree with Luke in that sentence that the Jedi failed quite a bit.
That's true.
Does that mean you should never have Jedi ever again?
No.
Yeah, that's obviously that's obviously stupid.
And that's exactly how a president has failed in your history at some point.
That means you should never have a president ever again.
Yeah.
All right.
This is who a lot of us.
Sometimes we sometimes we elect bad leaders.
So we know democracy.
Notice how he's not picking on the actual dogmatic elements of the religion.
He's just saying they failed if he if he made the argument.
The Jedi promote a lack of emotion and that encourages them to make decisions
that are inherently against humanity and the living force or something like that.
That's one thing.
But no, he just says they fucked up at one point.
And it's like, so by implication, they didn't mean to do that.
Right.
And that's that's the response Ray gives him.
And we don't get an answer for he's just like,
okay, I guess that's true.
Do you know this is supposed to be lesson two, by the way, guys?
Less than two.
What?
So lesson one was he.
Oh, I thought he said less than.
Oh, right.
Less than one.
He's like, the force is this, that, this, that, this, that.
Oh, my God, you went into the dark side and runs away.
I don't even know what she learned from that as a lesson.
But hey, whatever lesson two is supposed to be the Jedi suck.
And it ends with her going.
No, they don't, though.
And then the scene ends.
It's like, what are these lessons?
They're just they're just him rambling.
Like he's not even just think about Yoda and Empire, man.
He's such a bit more focused as a teacher, despite being an insane puppet.
Become.
He's not even mentioning that the Jedi's teaching of emotion suppressing
fear of anything from the dark side played a big part in his dad becoming Darth Vader.
Yeah, he didn't mention that, which is a flaw with the film.
And you've just invented it and added a win counter for that.
It's funny because Luke explicitly says, I'm going to give you three lessons.
The third lesson was in the deleted scene.
Yes, they just don't even address it in the actual cut.
This is going to end up in my videos.
There's a quote from I believe is Ryan Johnson.
It could be Mark Hamill, but they're asked about the third lesson.
And they say it's for the audience to interpret.
How funny is that?
They're relying on people like this guy writing the script for them.
They're like, Yeah, what do you think the third lesson was?
They go blah, blah, blah, blah.
You go that that was Yeah, you got it.
That's it.
Does it ever like just shock you how incompetent this movie is?
I mean, like it just doesn't even shock the shock has worn off.
It's incredible that it it's just gets these reactions, though.
Like, look, he just argued what I was just talking about.
Like the actual flaws with the Jedi religion, if you will, is the lack of emotions,
lots to talk about when they talk about that as like separation from any people.
And and cinema wins has just used that as a point in favor of Luke's
argument when he never mentions it.
So when the chat said I learned three lessons and was never bored.
Ray was never played a big part in his dad becoming Darth Vader.
The lighting in this film is astounding.
Yeah, I like the lighting.
That's do you guys like the lighting?
I like the lighting.
Yeah, the lighting was good.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Thanks for the superficial element.
So I'm saying a theme.
I'm sensing a theme with what we agree with the themes themes themes themes.
Wow.
That's it for that scene.
He's moved on.
Okay.
Into all men.
Benicio del Toro is the man.
Just the right amount of creepy mixed with cocky irreverence.
He's a strong actor.
Okay.
Yeah, I guess.
Sure.
I don't know about the character myself.
Yeah, I mean, the acting is fine, I guess, for whatever he's trying to portray.
Yeah, the stuttering is just annoying as hell.
But, you know, yeah, I'm not sure what I said.
Fine.
Whatever.
Moving on.
Give him a win.
Go ahead.
Look, I'm not saying that if these creatures looked more like spiders with
reptile skin, the sympathy factor may be less.
But who's going to deny horses with floppy bunny ears?
I am.
That looks fucking ugly.
Yeah.
I immediately thought of Trico from The Last Guardian, and apparently a lot of people did, too.
Yeah, that's what I hear.
Yeah.
Yeah, you don't want to rip off The Last Guardian.
It's not a very good thing to rip off.
I think Trico's design is neat.
That's what I'm talking about right now.
I do too, but that's the only neat thing about The Last Guardian.
Um, yeah, I think we're doing a record here.
Three hours, nine minutes.
That's pretty good.
Terrifically bad.
It's worse than usual.
Hey, that little drunk alien got his payday.
Okay.
Ooh, bottom of the barrel digging here.
I mean, he's stealing the Joker.
Yeah, he's voiced by Mark Hamill.
That's a win.
Okay.
Well, if nothing else, I guess Rose got to-
You put my fist through this whole lousy beautiful town.
Which is retarded, because who does she think has to mop all this up?
The child slaves.
I'm glad we didn't take them with us.
To be perfectly honest with you.
The rich people might, after this thing happens, go,
man, my insurance is going to pay off.
Did you hear what those two resistance people did to our town?
Fuck those guys.
We're going to support the new order even more.
Yeah, their reputation is going to go down the fucking toilet.
Yeah.
Rather than just being like, all right, little kid, you ride this.
She's like, here's a ring now.
Why would you save the children instead of saving the animals?
Do you value- what are you, not Peter?
I guess not.
No, because if they were Peter, they would have killed the horses.
Here we go again.
It's got some fun first-person shots through the streets.
Yeah.
Got some nice shots, I guess.
Yeah, I agree.
Yeah, and you know, hardcore Henry had a lot of person shots too, but-
Prometheus had some really good shots.
Prometheus has also got other things.
Similarly to the Last Jedi.
First-person shots through the streets.
Even the entry ramps are spiral staircases in Richtown.
Okay.
Yeah, it doesn't make any sense.
He skipped right over all the convenience.
I know that it's like only talk about the good things,
so I guess this is exactly what I should expect.
It's just superficial, you know, pickings.
That's a good thing you're here, guy, from before.
For the ship that we need.
You, specifically.
Why did you hurt your father?
Do you have something, a cowl or something you could put on?
Meme win.
And that's why it's a problem.
The fact that he just said meme win, hahaha, in a scene where moments later, I'm talking seconds,
she says, why did you kill your father?
And she actually tears up for it.
Perfect to have a joke just before that with a guy-
A meme!
Stop being naked, that's awkward.
Memes.
He's got pants on.
Uh, whether or not this joke works for you,
people in the audience, and whoever else, it's fine, I don't really mind.
I just goddamn hate that they put it right next to something so serious.
Right next to it, yeah.
It's a complete tonal shift.
Come on, Adam Driver's workout routine.
Being so wide that you're memed isn't a bad thing.
Let the past die.
Kill it, if you have to.
Kylo says that, and then Rey immediately goes to the dark cave on the island to get answers about her past.
His point is that it doesn't matter where you're from,
just like it doesn't matter where he's from.
Choose who you want to be.
Um, are we gonna ignore all the choices he's already made?
Yeah, uh, it's like everything people ever do or say is in a vacuum in his world, I guess.
And kill the past.
She can't even do anything with her past because she has nothing and then learns nothing.
I don't-
Beautiful sequence, but I also like that it's basically the same scene in Empire with a different-
No, how? Please explain.
Luke goes to the dark cave to confront Vader before he's ready,
and in addition to probably being really confused, learns that to kill Vader is to kill himself with-
Uh, my interpretation-
I don't think that's-
I don't think that's the way that scene was supposed to be interpreted.
Pretty sure this is foreshadowing what happens in Episode 6 being that to kill Vader is to
become Vader, potentially.
Yes, that's why Luke is inside the mask.
And that the-
Yeah, to be-
You aren't so different, you and I sort of angle-
You're not so different, you and I.
To kill Vader is to kill himself.
I don't think that's what that was going for.
I'm interested to see what the chat feels about that one,
because maybe I've missed an interpretation of that scene.
It's almost- it's almost the opposite.
To kill Vader is to become him.
Yeah, which is-
Someone said that's a raider response interpretation.
To kill Vader is to kill himself.
I don't- I don't think that's what it is.
No.
If I kill Vader, I'll die.
No.
Become Vader.
Uh, what else does he say?
He sought out to destroy.
It's very kind of simple.
Rey goes to find out who her parents are and present it only with herself.
I mean, if you frame it like that, it sort of is connected,
but most people were saying this was already a ripoff of Luke's scene.
They were like, yeah, she goes into a creepy hole and sees weird visions.
It's like, just one for one empire.
But with Rey, you could have cut this scene.
You could have cut all the fucking parent stuff.
We didn't need any of it, but there we are.
Only herself.
Which is her first hint that she has no one but herself?
For me, this is the most compelling part of this film.
Oh.
Oh, wow.
Oh, I mean, you know-
Wait, did he just- did he just-
Cinema win that?
I'm just saying it's compelling.
This is the most compelling part of the film for me.
Rey goes to find out who her parents are and is presented with only herself.
Which is her first hint that she has no one but herself?
For me, this is the most compelling part of this film.
Two people-
He actually did win that.
That's not even- he just said it's compelling to you.
That counter's so pointless.
People teetering on the edge of the forest, dark and light,
neither fully understanding their place in these ancient religions,
reaching out to try to find common knowledge-
Which is retarded because she should hate this man.
Yeah, with every fiber over being.
They're not- see, this is a different movie.
This is what Ryan's biggest mistake was.
He's just ignored what came before.
If you had a person who's being trained to become a dark side apprentice,
and a person's being trained to become a light side apprentice,
and they get to meet each other and actually talk about how
they don't even subscribe to either side.
They've just been brought into it.
That would be cool, but that's not what we're dealing with.
These people have a history.
You're completely ignored.
They've done things.
Like, every scene, every line, every action these characters take,
it doesn't occur in a vacuum with nothing else around it.
Though maybe if you're Ryan Johnson, that is how you fucking make movies.
Like, every scene is just-
It's some weird combination of familial, romantic, and I guess forced connection.
Romantic!
But also-
That's what everyone interpreted from it.
I don't blame them.
It seems like she's got a bit of a crush on Kylo, and you're like, why?
It's kind of creepy when you think about the whole father figure being murdered by him.
I would- why?
Yeah, she only tried to kill him three days ago, but, you know, now it's different.
Because, like I said, he tells her Luke made me a monster.
That means I'm okay with Kylo now, because it's Luke's fault.
It's like, what?
Makes sense to me.
Though somehow feels so relatable, picking up with a force of weight.
I thought he said it's relatable and just didn't explain why.
He just said, it's relatable.
It's like, okay.
Do you think he's ever been in this kind of position where the person he was trying to date,
like, killed their own parent, and he was like, oh, I can relate on a cosmic level to this scene.
Why is- why is logic muted?
Is he efapping?
You don't want to let people hear that through a microphone.
I think he might be collecting coffees.
He did say he was very, very tired.
And, um, picking up with TFA left off, Ryan did as much as he possibly,
as much practically as he could.
Even shots like the hut blowing apart were practical.
Bacon's left off, Ryan did as-
Yeah, no, I actually, I knew that as well.
And again, yeah, that's cool.
Cool practical effect.
Yeah.
As much practically as he could, even shots like the hut blowing apart were practical.
Regardless of your feelings about who Luke has become,
seeing him embrace being the master, fighting with an antenna, and knowing his superiority-
But he lost!
He did lose.
And to be honest, if he spent, like, fucking 10 years not even-
Was he training while he was doing this?
I don't know.
It's confusing, because it's just like, he is pretty good with that.
But if the film's trying to establish that he wanted to come here to die, was he training as well?
Or did he become, like, kind of shitty after 10 years of not doing it?
I don't know.
It's- the whole thing is confusing.
But yeah, we get to see him fight with an antenna, that's true.
Has to give you some sense of joy.
Would not give us a sense of joy when she defeated him.
I can fucking guarantee you that.
Ooh!
First time Luke has used the Force in a physical way, and who knows how long?
And it happens by instinct.
Yes.
That is something that did happen.
He's right.
He lost a lot of people with his garbage nonsense.
I think this is where Ryan lost a lot of people,
and I honestly understand your frustration.
Luke should be better than this.
But honestly, that's kind of what the film is about, why Luke is the way he is.
He's not perfect, even our heroes have flaws.
Yeah, heroes have flaws, that means they can do literally anything,
and you can just run it off with heroes have flaws.
Honestly, that's kind of what this film is about.
Like, just take, you know, Captain America, he runs away screaming from a fight
and uses a little girl as a shield against someone throwing a knife at him.
That's in character because heroes have flaws.
I kind of want to see that, actually.
It's why Luke is the way he is.
He's not perfect, even our heroes have flaws.
Last time he approached the dark side, it was because Vader had threatened Leia.
I love every time people think this makes sense.
It doesn't make sense, okay?
There's a big difference between talking to the biggest mass murderer outside of the emperor,
the biggest dark side threat, this creature, this monster who's also threatening to kill
your sister or turn her over to the dark side.
Thanks to reading your mind, Luke loses his shit.
That makes complete sense.
Compared to Innocent Child sleeping.
You fucking...
Same thing.
I just don't...
Why is that the same to these people?
I am convinced that the people that like this movie don't actually like Star Wars at all,
and that they don't understand anything that they speak of.
It's like Luke, Luke got angry at Vader once.
That makes sense that he would try to kill his student in his sleep, okay?
It's the same thing.
It's the same thing.
On to his fear of what Ben would become.
He knew where it led and wanted to stop it, but he...
You know what would have been so much better, to have scenes of them training and for...
Especially because we've had Force Awakens, Luke looks into Kylo,
and we see a vague version of what happens in TFA when he stabs Han Solo, and that's what Luke saw.
Maybe.
And he could be like, fuck.
And he backs up and maybe even hits a wall, then Kylo wakes up and sees him,
and then they have a conversation that degrades.
Basically, like, Kylo's like, what the fuck are you doing here?
Then he's like, Kylo, what's going on?
Like, why...
What's...
You know, you don't need the...
I pulled my lightsaber on him.
There's so many better ways to do this, and they just fucked it.
And immediately regretted it.
This is not going to go the way you think.
Clairvoyance.
Okay.
Ooh, she once again extends his father's lightsaber to him, asking for his help,
and Luke refuses because, like he said, what should he do?
Face down the entire First Order?
Oh my god, are you retarded?
Interesting.
That's not what anyone's ever asked for him.
They just want him to help.
That's never...
And they just want him to help.
They don't expect him to just snap his fingers and solve
all the problems and face down the entire army by himself.
Why did Luke, Leia, and Han even bother in the original trilogy?
What were they going to do?
Face down the entire empire themselves?
Yeah.
Oh yeah, they kind of did.
They kind of, in their own ways, helped bring it down.
Oh shit.
It's not going to go the way you think.
The only thing I'm just realizing is that Luke was totally on his way to burn the
Jedi text when Rey arrived, which is why he changed right back out of these white
robes when she got there.
Makes even more sense why he'd throw the...
Uhhh...
What?
Uhhh...
He has specific burned down Jedi temple attire?
Hey man, it's a special occasion.
Yes, and here the clothes I wear.
He was...
Guys, he was on his way to do it.
That's why he was standing on the edge of a cliff.
Where was the torch and the light?
I'm half convinced he was actually about to throw himself off.
Now it's my time.
What am I going to do today?
Oh yeah, nothing.
What does Luke do on this island?
Aside from fish and drink milk.
I don't think he chats up the frog none.
He's like, hey.
He just fucks him.
Oh, how about the...
He's the only penis on the island.
How about them?
How about force?
How about the force?
How about that?
Oh, hear about the force.
Do you guys make YouTube videos?
Yeah.
Do you have a Patreon account?
You might get banned.
Lightsaber away.
He'd made up his mind about the Jedi already.
Well yeah, we know that.
That's why he came there.
It doesn't inform...
Stop it.
It's Jeyota.
Oh my god, it looks so bad.
Yeah, after 30 years.
That's a whole bunch of wins.
Jeyota, always the trickster.
What?
Oh my god.
Stop it.
What?
What?
You gave a ding to the...
Jesus Christ.
Jesus fucking Christ.
You see, this is why I say these people aren't smart.
These people are insane.
They're nuts.
That's your opinion.
It's like they live in a separate pocket dimension.
Oh my god.
So...
I mean, you gotta see this, Wolf.
See, we even need to like watch the rest of this video
because I don't think it's gonna be...
I got another one I just posted.
Oh my god, these Michael Cera mains.
Oh my god.
Oh, somebody...
I don't know if these accounts posted it at the same time.
They both used the same thing but different Michael Cera face.
My god, he looks like a 10-year-old in the other ones.
No, that's just Michael Cera's face.
I know.
That one's good.
God, these range from incredible to like the greatest thing ever made.
So Michael Cera mains makes suffering through this awful video worth it.
Yeah, I was gonna say, so Yoda always the trickster.
Yoda was only a trickster before revealing to Luke that he was a Jedi Master.
And it was only because he was testing Luke.
Yeah, he was acting.
He was not insane constantly.
This comes back to what Mike was saying in the TLJ half in the bag.
He's like, why is it that he's taken one element of what Yoda did as a test
and turned it into his entire character?
It's kind of weird.
I'm not gonna say it's complete betrayal or anything.
It's just, yeah, shoot that lightning at the temple and light on fire.
That's something that Yoda would do.
It's like, what?
Yeah, I mean, when I came to...
Well, we were all made known that Force Ghosts have the ability to summon lightning from the sky
to destroy real life things.
I was like, oh, that's Yoda.
It's like a TV show.
That's Yoda.
Yeah.
Also, you know, the fucking ruins the lore element of it, but hey, whatever.
Yes, failure.
Most of all, the greatest teacher failure is.
Yoda talking about failure with notes from the piece that played during the X-Wing swamp
retrieval after his There Is No Tri-Speech when Luke had failed and given up way back.
Oh, hang on.
Let me...
Yoda talking about failure with notes of the piece that played during the X-Wing swamp retrieval
after his There Is No Tri-Speech when Luke had failed and given up way back then.
Well done.
Yeah, the lore is fine.
That was a monster of a sentence.
So his argument there of appreciation is that they use the same piece of music,
which again, I'm just like, finds a little bit arbitrary when the scripting is horrible.
You know, I just noticed we are like 75% of the way through the movie
minutes into this 42 minute video.
Apparently he's got a long summary.
I'll be interested to see how he's at least going to structure that because how does that work?
Someone in the chat said mauler feet logic.
All I hear is the usual schmucks.
Yeah, I have to admit after three hours of this, I'm a little, I don't know.
I don't have a lot to say about this anymore.
It's, I mean, he's cycling through the film with very arbitrary points.
So I'm assuming the substance will come in conclusion.
I should drink more.
I have a bunch of beer.
Maybe I should just drink it all.
Maybe he should.
Yeah, Rags has definitely been doing that.
People are saying his summary is extremely long.
Why didn't he have parts of the summary in his actual plot?
He's just skipping seasons, essentially.
I don't know what the point of this is.
Also, yeah, the whole failure is the best teacher thing.
First of all, just tips for writers.
Don't have your theme explicitly stated.
It tends to be awkward.
There are ways to make it work, but that was like so on the nose.
The people pointing out that failure makes for the greatest teacher
as some kind of profound message of Last Jedi.
It's like, yeah, it's as effective as just saying it at that point.
Because it's confusing, because obviously Poe doesn't fail,
and yet learns a lesson he doesn't need.
In terms of narrative, you're just like, okay.
Finn makes the mistake of trying to save everybody,
and learns from Rose that he should not do that.
You know what I mean?
Like the characters, people have to skew it to make it make sense.
It's like, did Holdo fail?
It depends on who you talk to.
I don't even know.
I mean, from our perspective, I think she did, but...
Confusing.
Love it to gun E-Limp after E-Fapping for three hours.
E-Limp.
Yeah.
E-Limp.
His summary is longer than the not summary.
Not sure that that's a summary, but it's okay.
No, you are not just a coward.
You are a traitor.
What is it that makes him seem trustworthy?
What?
Are you fucking serious?
Why, why, why, why?
Do you understand who this character is?
Jesus Christ.
So he accuses her of being a traitor and a coward for killing,
getting everyone killed, and your response is,
see, why would you trust this guy?
Oh my god.
Not about trusting him, even.
I don't even know.
I guess he's responding to the argument of,
why wouldn't she tell him the plan?
And he's saying, because she doesn't trust him.
Again, Poe's the only one who makes any fucking sense
on the entire ship for the entire scenes that take place on them.
Everyone else, there's people who join his mutiny
who don't speak up beforehand.
Maybe they should have.
Not to mention, every time he asks, it's in public.
So even if she trusts...
So?
Then, then come with me to a private place
so I can tell you the plan.
That's not even true.
They go off in a private conversation.
The first time he talks to her.
So...
Him?
She has no clue if she can trust the rest of her bridge crew.
Stop inventing the storyline.
She never mentions that.
She never says anything about not trusting people.
Especially given that some of them help with Poe's mutiny later.
Yeah.
Why do you think they do?
Why do you think they help with the mutiny?
Because some...
I said, Roholdo.
I am relieving you of your command.
And then he mutinies.
Is that what you said something?
So...
Yeah.
I left a comment on his video about this.
I'll just fucking pull it up because...
Easier to just...
This is what this is about.
It's been removed since then, but hey, why not?
So he said, is that why she should have said something to the mutineer?
That sort of thing.
And I said, yes.
Poe is threatening to use the last of the fuel.
The resistance have to push them ahead of the First Order.
As far as Holdo understands the situation,
that's going to result in the deaths of everyone on board.
So she rightfully, from her point of view,
denies the plan because of the hyperspace tracker.
Her plan is foolproof compared to Poe's.
And she says, you bet the survival of the resistance on bad odds
and you put us all at risk.
That's what she says to him to make him fucking mutiny.
And then he says...
Well, he commits to the mutiny.
And perhaps to enact his plan regardless,
because he's unaware of her plan,
which means she's forced to share the plan
in order to save everybody on board.
Because he's put a gun on her.
So now she has no choice.
She can't just say, go away.
She has to actually do something a little bit more drastic
to be able to save these people.
Otherwise, he's going to waste their fuel
and push them away from crates, by the way,
which is like the perfect safe place right now.
And also, many people already know the plan
because they're boarding the transports.
And if anybody was untrustworthy,
then they have the means to discover the plan anyway.
Not to mention that Poe shares with Holdo
that he is under the impression
that they are simply going to leave the ship
in the transport and hope for the best.
He knows the significant portion of the plan already,
as in he can...
If she didn't trust him with the part that's crates,
but only the part where they are in transports,
then they're still at risk of being murdered either way.
So it doesn't matter.
Just tell him the other part of the plan at this point.
And once he's told the plan, he says...
This might actually work, Line, if you remember that.
So he's completely in favor of it.
And if Holdo's only concerned with everybody being alive
and well, which I don't think you can debate that,
then allowing Poe to mutiny without sharing the plan
is contradictory to her character and her goals.
As far as she knows, it's an awful plan.
And telling Poe and the mutineers,
the actual plan is the absolute lesser evil,
even if she thinks that that'll reveal the plan to the enemies.
That's still better than everyone dying.
So it puts everyone in one lever push away from death
because Holdo just decides, fuck it, I don't like Poe.
We presented this argument to Just Write, by the way,
who's heavily in favor of this film.
And he had nothing.
He was like,
What did you say?
He said, it's not something you notice on a first watch.
So?
It's not a response, is it?
That's not an argument.
She kept the plan away from the people
to give the audience the impression
that this was a hopeless situation.
It wouldn't have been nail biting at all.
If we were just waiting for them to get a crate from the get go.
In fact, it'd be pretty boring
unless they do something completely different.
And that, yeah, and that's pretty much it.
And I said at the end,
even Patrick Willems admits this makes no sense,
but it furthers the characters in the story, making it okay.
I don't agree with that either,
but that's much more of a reasonable take.
The fact that he's admitting it doesn't make sense.
Does that end the conversation about Holdo, please?
And by the way, I noticed the shit out of this
when I first watched the film.
This was my primary complaint.
You can ask Alex.
The first thing I want to talk about is Holdo's plan.
I think a lot of people were just confused.
Did anyone else's watch together get assassinated?
No, it's apparently yours.
It says you've got.
What just happened?
Hold on.
Yeah, there is no problem with cinema.
If your response is you don't notice with it on a first try,
so you just say that to literally everything.
Like the whole film could be black and no audio.
And I could be like, I didn't notice that myself.
I was sleeping.
I'm blind and deaf.
So that's what everything is.
Anyway.
What is it that makes him seem trustworthy?
Not to mention, every time he asks, it's in public.
So even if she trusts him,
she has no clue if she can trust the rest of her bridge crew,
especially given that some of them help with Poe's mutiny later.
I am relieving you of your command.
And then he mutinies.
Is that when she should have said something?
Yes.
To the mutiny?
Yes.
I hear you.
Yes.
But he was obviously trying to do the right thing.
Why in the crap would that be obvious to Holdo?
That's not even relevant.
He's about to kill everybody.
So of course, she has to tell him the plan to prevent him from killing everybody.
Yeah, this is ridiculous.
She trusts him.
Doesn't matter if she thinks or doesn't think it's the right thing.
It's a matter of saving everyone's lives.
It's a mixture of frustrating and interesting to try and hear these attempts at justifications.
And they'll never end.
Because people love this film and they have to figure out how to defend it beyond the
subjective.
It has to be definitive and objective.
Because his argument right now is objective.
He's saying that these things are what happened.
But they're not.
And he's totally ignoring other things.
It's just you're welcome to like the film.
But when you start making things up to defend it, it gets frustrating.
I'm sorry, I've skipped ahead a bit.
I don't know.
Sending two people on a half-thought-out mission that ultimately leads to further
Oh, sorry.
Is he is he criticizing Poe's idea?
He doesn't like the plan and then goes off and does something stupid.
Like, I don't know, sending two people on a half-thought-out mission that ultimately
leads to further destruction.
As opposed to killing yourselves.
As opposed to dying.
Yeah, definitely.
If the plan was I'm going to throw a stone and hope it hits the right person who's a
mile away, I would take that over death.
Fuck it.
Yeah, I don't see how this is a point against the plan.
Yeah, it's not even a little bit.
Because R2 looks like a trashcan.
So he doesn't.
Even if that's a reference, I was like, yeah, it's a neat use the upside down bin to camouflage.
That's cool.
Just like to point out that whether Ray knows it or not, her clothes know the conflict inside her.
She was wearing white during her last force meeting with Kylo.
No, no clothes darker.
So was.
Yeah, that's.
So wait, but no, he can't say that he can't use that reason.
Because earlier he said Luke was wearing his burned down the Jedi temple attire and that was white.
So I don't know.
Yeah, that's a bit at odds.
Well, maybe he's doing that in favor of the light.
I don't know.
It's different for it's different for Luke.
Someone just highlighted, which I think is fair to mention.
This is through hindsight.
He's making these points as well.
So he's not just wrong on their own, but they're wrong in terms of.
Let's assume the evil BB-8 was not caught or Nazi BB-8 didn't spot BB-8.
Let's say that didn't happen.
And they tell Poe.
They're like, yeah, we disabled the tracker.
Go.
And then Poe hits the lever and they escape.
And then Leia comes into the room and she's like, Poe, what the fuck have you done?
And then he's like, we disabled the tracker.
We're safe.
And then they are safe.
And that's it.
How awkward would that be?
You're devoted.
You saved us again.
Exactly.
Yeah, Poe, you piece of shit.
You're not a private boy.
You should be dead by now.
Damn it.
And Poe's just like, fuck you.
Stop saving everyone's lives.
I'm just going to go join the fist.
And I'm going to start my own fucking resistance.
With Blackjack and hookers.
Why don't we even resist anymore?
Let's just go to Canobite and hang out.
Yeah.
Welcome.
Beliteness.
I'll go with a heart of gold.
This is subversion done well.
Just because he's an opportunist doesn't mean he's just
straight up jerk.
What do you mean he's got a heart of gold?
He betrays them in five minutes.
Mechanically, it makes no sense.
You've got Pearson who has no investment in anything.
He admits that.
They say we need to hire you for a job.
We're going to pay you X amount.
And he says, I need a deposit.
And they go, okay.
And he says he wants the necklace,
which they're really disappointed by,
because it's a family thing.
And they're like, fine.
Here's the necklace.
And then he goes, great.
Turns out he didn't want the necklace's deposit.
He wanted to use it to be able to hack into the door.
Which is like, oh, that's convenient.
That she had a necklace.
And then he gives it back to it.
And it's like, no, he has a heart of gold.
It's like, no, he deserves a deposit.
He deserves the fucking payment, to be honest.
And you treat him like a bad guy because he wanted a deposit
when he has no investment in this.
You have to do everything for free all the time,
especially your work.
Ridiculous.
That's really ridiculous.
It makes no sense.
That's not what the nearest escape pods are.
Of course you do.
Ooh, traitor burn.
All right.
Uh, yeah, I actually like that bit.
So she thinks he's cowardly throughout the whole film.
And then he, they say, how are we going to escape?
And he says, I know where the escape pods are.
And she says, of course you do.
Yeah.
But the whole thing is like, why would she think he's a traitor?
Well, that's the stupid part, right?
Because she found him getting into the escape pod,
despite the argument that he did it to try and save somebody.
And she's like, no, you're going to do it.
So she should be on this mission.
And she still thinks he's a traitor.
That's kind of interesting.
Yeah.
Um, this is fucking stupid.
Yeah.
No, actually you've convinced me.
I like the line.
If it was in a movie, the line is, I mean, it, I mean, it's kind of like, okay.
But it doesn't make any sense at all.
She was more interested in protecting the light than she was seeming like a hero.
I'm sure that seems like a third person humble brag, but think about it.
The light is the last remaining members of the resistance.
Yeah.
So keeping her plane a secret made her look like coward and a traitor to what he wasn't
the only one on the mutiny.
And you acknowledge that yourself.
Why are you contradicting your own fucking video?
Nearly extinguished the light by not telling anybody.
So yeah, her plan still nearly extinguished the light.
Only like one ship made it down to the planet.
And she took it to actually stop darling.
Yeah.
To prevent the extinguishment of the light.
She takes ages on a ship.
She's like, I guess I could do the hyperdrive thing.
I need to watch a few more of them die.
Not to mention of the like one ship that made it down,
how much was there that made it onto the Millennium Falcon like 10?
So the light is composed of 10 people.
No, nine people because Leia's dead.
I love the layers.
Like she wanted to protect the light more than be a hero.
It's like maybe she could have done both if she had shared the plan.
Yeah.
Maybe they should have got like autopilot or I guess she didn't have.
Also, he said, well, I'd say some, but really it was just Poe.
There was more than just Poe in the mutiny team.
Yeah.
One.
Yeah.
They clearly have multiple people there.
Well, I'd say it's not really specified how many.
It's like enough or even enough.
Yeah, it was just Poe.
The hero would have told everyone the plan and risk it getting back to the first order.
What?
Being a hero is defined by sharing your plans now.
Talking about.
No.
Getting back to the first order, who again was tracking them.
This is all predicated on the fact that the first order can't look out a window and see a planet.
Let's play the hindsight game.
Why not?
If she had told him the plan, the first order never would have discovered the plan.
Yet by not telling him the plan, he interprets what the fuck's going on.
And then the first order get the information by unfortunate luck
of them being captured by a rogue BB-8 Nazi droid.
It's horribly written.
Horribly written.
And as I said, all of this because the first order can't look out a fucking window and see a planet.
That too.
Which is so stupid.
Look, oh, there's just a fucking planet here.
We just don't.
We didn't notice that.
Also, we're not shooting the shuttles as they're going there.
God, it's also just a mess.
It's a mess.
Who, again, was tracking them in a way they couldn't explain.
Fortunately, Poe set up Finn to let this stuttering opportunist tell the first order of the plan.
We ran a decloaking scan.
And sure enough, they ran a decloaking scan.
It's like maybe you guys should have been doing that this whole time instead of just waiting.
That's something you should be always doing at intervals all the time.
It costs batteries.
Okay, AAA batteries.
It's like the point of a decloaking device is that you're always using it
because you don't know if there's anything cloaked.
That's why you use the decloaking device constantly.
No, you only use it if you know there's something to decloak.
That's how that works.
Well, look, they used up all their AAA batteries
because they had to put something in their Xbox controllers.
So they just didn't.
The Xbox controllers use AA batteries, idiot.
Hey, this is in the future.
Oh, yeah, they used one more A.
Oh, what's this one?
That looks like Kylo Ren's wearing a mic.
You can see his chin beneath it.
I don't know what to make of this one.
Oh, God, that's horrifying.
Oh, that's genuinely scary.
Michael, Sarah's face on Jared Genesis's body.
With Kylo Ren's hair, man.
Yeah, that'll that'll be a challenge for anybody who really wants to take it on.
It was just terrible, but that face.
Ding for the face.
Still a fiery spit of hope.
Compliments.
Okay, you know, I hate to brag and I didn't get it exactly right,
but I did sort of predict this scene that Kylo had to commit to his feelings
in order to trick and defeat Snoke.
More importantly, say what you will about some of the expectations of versions.
This one is awesome.
Who cares who Snoke was?
Basically, that's the short answer to that.
That's the short response.
Who cares who this fucking magic.
Why why is it I don't understand why it is that the people that like the last Jedi
for some reason don't care about anything that makes a good story.
What a coincidence.
So the idea of someone being murdered after they're established to be potentially important.
That's one thing.
That's not what happened here, because we know Snoke is important.
We don't we do.
It's not projected that he's important and powerful.
We know he is.
He is the biggest connecting piece between episode six and seven here.
Yes, central figure in the rise of the entire new bad guys,
the creation of this whole conflict that he's fucked up movies revolve.
The solo and Skywalker family has been destroyed by this man.
The reason why he needs to have a good backstory is because we need to care about the villain.
If we don't care about the villain and he's just some stupid old guy in a bathrobe
who does effectively nothing with golden slippers.
Yeah, then what's the point of having the villain?
If you're not going to tell us anything about him,
I just I don't know why they always open it with it that way as well.
Who cared who Snoke was?
Why do you think no one cared?
What?
Why?
Why do you think people have a problem with this?
If nobody cared, this cares, which is why everybody is wondering what the fuck?
Who is the Emperor?
Just some powerful Sith.
That's it.
That's all you need to just some powerful Sith.
You know, when when you watch four, five and six and you find out the empire is
constructed of stormtroopers, generals and Darth Vader, and then you're like,
is that the complete hierarchy?
And you go, no, actually, there's an emperor who is the top undisputed authority.
And you go, okay, cool.
You don't need an extreme backstory for him.
You don't need it to understand the OT.
You do need it to understand Snoke, the transition from the OT to the sequels.
It is the concept of a blank slate.
Something.
Yes.
And and we got the prequels.
Anyway, we actually got a huge backstory for the emperor and how he rose to power.
As I mentioned, he was mentioned in episode four and he played a small role in episode five.
So he was always there.
Yeah.
And I don't understand what he's even advocating for here.
Like we're talking about explaining what a potential contradictions
understanding how Snoke rose with all the information we have from the OT.
That's what we we don't understand.
We don't have any information about how the emperor could have risen because we only
have episode four at the time of episode four being released and five and six.
So it could be any reason.
It doesn't matter.
This does matter because we know all these characters.
It's it's not the same thing.
The the way they equate like everything.
They're like, you like this film, so it's fine now.
Another it's not even an argument.
But hey, yeah, people cared.
Just clarifying.
Powerful Sith and Snoke's still half a powerful supreme leader.
All right.
Also, yeah, to that shot.
Oh, man.
The way your hand comes up so perfectly timed as well.
Was it?
I mean, I like the show.
Okay.
I'm with me.
Okay.
Okay.
Now we've got some Star Wars.
I can't say for sure why the Victorian guards are still fighting.
Yeah, that's kind of a thing.
It's like Kylo just goes, guys, you're working for me now.
Guys, stop.
It's like God is like you.
You know, he was a Sith.
You knew this would eventually happen.
It's like you knew this was how this was going to always.
Right.
Like every single time the Sith apprentice kills the Sith master, they forget.
Like shit.
Wait, I don't know.
That's not going to happen again.
That was just one time thing.
What have you been happening for 20,000 years?
What do you think they were planning on doing once they killed Rey and Kylo?
Like after that, what do you want to sit down?
Yeah, that's like, hey, you guys want to hit the pub?
Well, that was that was exhilarating.
Anybody.
Yeah.
That's and then that's aside from the choreography.
Oh, shit.
No, no, no more.
Shut up.
Shut up.
We got to get our story straight.
Carl, get over here.
Fuck.
It's like, do we follow Hux now?
And Hux is like, yes.
And they go, no, let's kill him too.
I want to be.
I want to be the Supreme Leader.
Yeah, I think Jim would be a pretty good Supreme Leader.
And then they're like, yeah, I'm done with Jim.
Jim.
Yeah, I think Jim would be good.
All right.
Everyone in favor of Jim, raise your hand.
Supreme Leader Jim.
All right.
It's seven to two.
So Jim, you're a Supreme Leader.
Oh, wait.
Solid.
Solid Sora said, E.R.
doesn't want to hurt your reputation by coming on E-Fap.
Did he say that?
Because trust me, more controversial things have been said on E-Fap than
probably in E-R's videos, possibly.
I'd have to go through all of our history.
But, yeah, if he said that, it feels bad, man.
But he can still come on because, you know, yeah.
Obviously, not a Nazi propagandist.
That's fucking true.
Someone said, what reputation?
That's true.
What reputation do we even have?
Oh, wait.
You said it.
Four guys on the internet.
Do you mind?
They said I'd tweet you about it.
I've gotten a bit of a spam of Kylo memes recently, so I may have missed it.
I'm afraid.
Kylo Jim.
Oh, wait.
Hang on.
So.
Oh, yeah.
Okay.
So someone said, would he go on the Ralf or kill stream?
He said he's busy at the moment.
Then someone said go on E-Fap instead.
And then he said he doesn't want to get Mauler in trouble.
No.
Yeah.
No, you're fine.
I'm pretty sure.
If someone made an article saying that Mauler, Wolf, and Rags were,
I don't know, Nazis, we would cover it on E-Fap and laugh our asses off.
Um, but yeah.
As if we haven't been called that already.
Yeah, I'll keep that.
I don't know.
I'll send him a PM at some point saying that he's fine to come on.
Anyway.
Instead, I mean, Kylo would have to kill them either way, but this is a super awesome fight.
I wish I agreed with you.
Choreography is retarded.
And they CGI out weapons in order to make the good guys win.
And they have kind of forget the use of the force.
It looks cool superficially until you slow it down and actually look at what's happening.
Which genuinely I'd have to really watch it in slow motion,
but I'm pretty sure the Darth Maul fight doesn't suffer from that.
The choreography in that is pretty, it's just good for what I remember.
Although I have to say, for some reason, people were all into Darth, Darth Maul's
double lightsaber, which is the most retarded fucking weapon I've ever seen in my life.
What about a lightsaber whip?
Wouldn't that be more tough?
Like the double lightsaber is the most useless thing.
All it does is limit your maneuverability.
It makes it really, really easy to chop yourself in half.
Well, yeah, it'd be like, wouldn't it make more sense to have two single lightsabers
instead of one double?
Yeah, exactly.
You would essentially use a, Shatterversity did a good video on this.
Well, you'd essentially, you would fence with lightsabers.
You wouldn't swing them around and do so.
You would essentially use them as like, like rapiers.
Right.
Fencing.
Yeah.
Because you would try to poke people with it.
I would love to see them do that in a Star Wars movie.
Like proper fencing with lightsabers.
That would be incredible.
Like, like, let's do list.
Do you know the movie?
Yeah, we had the same thought at the same time.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Like something like that where it's tense and because lightsaber will fuck you up if it
touches you.
Oh shit.
It would be fucking terrifying to be on the wrong end of a lightsaber.
It'd be so scary.
Yeah, but lightsabers aren't a horror game.
Yeah, this fight, it's difficult.
I mean, again, he's selectively doing counter arguments and only talking about the good
things.
So I was going to criticize him for not bringing up the bad elements to this fight,
but then I don't know if he's like selectively doing that.
So I don't know.
Framed.
You know, the thing is, if you just watch the fight,
like if you're just sitting there in the theater and you just watch it, it's fun.
Yeah, I thought it was you can look at my original video.
I said the fight was awesome.
And it's because I didn't get a chance to think about it.
We'll see.
Yeah.
Well, you, you stupid idiot, you assumed that they wouldn't CGI out weapons.
So if the heroes, I can, I can entirely understand why someone would be into the
fight.
So I think that's not too big of a big of a criticism.
I just, I would say to be fair and balanced considering it's been
this video came out recently.
So it's been like 11 months.
Maybe, maybe acknowledge the flaws that everybody's pointed out several
times.
Apparently one of the top comments for the video is talking about how bad this
fight is.
So with awesome choreography and team.
I've got that power.
The three of them attacker in the exact same spot for no reason.
She gets to block all of her fight.
I don't know why you would fight back to back.
And she kicks one and all three of them back away.
It's like, it's so satisfying to see them fight together.
Wouldn't it be funny if Kylo accidentally swung too far back and cut
off the top of her head?
Yeah.
I mean, it's just, it's ridiculous considering his character.
I could totally picture him being like, well, I'll get over it after the
buildup in this movie.
Wow.
That was a lot of wins.
How is that ingenuity?
Apparently it is rags.
I don't know.
Fuck you.
What is ingenuity?
It's doing something clever with the resources you have, I guess.
I guess.
No, they wouldn't because there's not a lightsaber blade.
There's not a lightsaber blade in the cross guard.
Yeah.
You know, those also, they're not cross cards.
They're venting ports, but that's what I always thought that doesn't make sense
because the point that the T joint, the cross joint itself is metal.
Yeah.
So what he just said doesn't apply.
Yeah.
You know, I would have loved if like one of them, preferably Kylo,
did like a force repuls during this fight just for the novelty of that happening.
Fucking use the force ever.
This whole fight offers so many chances for them to use the force.
It's the one advantage they have over these guys because we assume they don't have the force.
Whatever.
Yep.
A little reverse grip form that she had trained for earlier.
Why?
That's fucking retarded though.
Holding your sword as a reverse grip is retarded.
It is stupid.
It doesn't matter.
He's saying like she did that move in trading and now she's doing it here.
Oh, she know what she did was she just turned her hand around
and she started swinging their sword around.
And now she's like, oh, so in a fight, I know how to use this as an effective technique.
Well, so I'm pretty sure she didn't need to do it as in she could have dropped it
and grabbed it either way.
She decided to grab it with the backhand instead.
Let me have a look at that again.
Because when you swing with it backhand, you put a huge
limit on your reach.
Cross guards coming in.
A massive limit on your reach.
So she dropped it like that.
She could have grabbed it with the left.
But why?
But he would just kill her.
If she let go, then hit the force of his.
Oh god, you're right.
She just lets go and he just doesn't push.
Let's go.
He doesn't make any sense.
He's pushing into her.
If she lets go, he's going to hit her with the weapon.
We found a new issue with this fight.
Christ.
But instead, he's just like, oh, I guess he just he just stops attacking in the book.
We literally find a new problem with this movie every single time we talk about it.
There's nothing right about the Last Jedi.
Oh, no, she's stopped pushing against me.
I will I will stop pushing to like what?
Also, it's been a while since I've watched the movie.
But I don't remember why exactly the room caught on fire.
She threw the was like she tangled that weapon up and threw it away
as she moved the sword and it hit the wall and it set everything on fire.
Oh, OK.
So someone's saying the metal part cross guard is just to protect Kylo's hands.
There's lightsaber under it because it's a vent.
If a lightsaber hit the top of the metal, it would go through the metal and blade.
Well, then what's keeping the vents venting it in that direction?
I'm afraid they don't keep that in continuity because his lightsaber is still fully formed.
It's not like a shed of metal.
The reason that it is a vent, the vent is to direct the blade in this in that direction.
So if they hit the vent, then the lightsaber, the energy would just go wherever it would go.
And it would essentially fail as a weapon.
I get what you're saying, but I don't think it quite holds up.
I just can't believe we found someone else was so significant.
But, yeah, no, it's moving on a little reverse grip form that she had trained for earlier.
This is not training.
She swung her sword in front of a rock for.
And I get what you mean now, like her doing that.
Oh, shit.
Where were we?
God damn it.
Nope.
Yep.
Yep.
So you said about the whole like her choice to do reverse grip form,
quote unquote, on that rock.
It makes no sense why she would do that instead of normal grip form is what you're saying, right?
Exactly.
It makes absolutely zero sense.
There's actually a video that I forget who did it.
I don't know if it was Lindy Beige or it might have been Skallagrim or Meditron,
but someone did like a video on like the reverse grip and they would be like,
I think essentially it was like maybe on knives.
It sort of makes sense for stabbing because you'd have to be close up anyway.
But even then, it's like it's a huge disadvantage to use a reverse grip.
Practically every scenario, especially with a lightsaber that will go through armor
and you don't have to like swing it hard.
Like that's why it would be used as offensive.
It doesn't make any sense.
It's one of those very cool cross guards coming handy.
Wow.
Right.
Whenever you're afraid of the people who like this movie, put on a stupid piston voice.
Are you are you correct?
So another thing that I noticed is when Kylo blocks that attack from above,
why does the second guy come in to swing his weapon at Kylo's weapon
instead of swinging it at Kylo's body?
I thought their point was to like.
Oh, you're well, I mean, yeah, I guess he's going for his weapon
isn't to kill him and Kylo blocks by pushing down.
My question would be why did the I guess the Praetorian God isn't very strong.
So you allowed Kylo to push the weapon down to defend himself
instead of keeping this one's apparently not strong either.
That's true.
I just love the fact that he just gives up right there.
He's just like, oh, yep.
A little reverse grip for him that she had trained for earlier.
That's retarded.
Yeah, I get what you mean.
She should have just had it normally not backward.
It makes no sense.
It just looks cool.
And that's it.
The very thing that probably should have happened to the original Ben
when he handed Luke Anakin's lightsaber.
Yeah, what?
The very thing where Kylo forgets he has the force and you're like dinging it.
The very thing.
I'm sorry.
The very thing the very thing this.
Okay, the English there.
This very I'm assuming he's saying this is the very thing
that probably should have happened to the original Ben
when he handed Luke Anakin's lightsaber.
So he's saying when hits him in the face.
Yeah.
Why is it easy saying that would have been funny?
I mean, the thing is that if you're turning the lightsaber off and on
depending on how fast you could do it could be used in combat.
But again, if we're going to get into the nitty gritty of the techniques,
then they wouldn't be fighting like this.
Anyway, they would be using like they would be fencing essentially
where keeping the lightsaber, you know, off and on
would offer you no advantages whatsoever.
You'd want to keep it on all the time, clearly.
And yeah, the only time we're turning the blade off and having it back on
would be like the advantage is if somebody was right.
Like if you fainted a an attack from above and the enemy used their lightsaber
to attempt to block it perpendicular.
And as you brought your lightsaber down, you turned it off.
And then when it had passed the lightsaber, you turn it back off,
which would be cool to see that done.
Should be cool.
But someone highlighted, by the way, Count Dooku is kind of like fencing.
If you remember, he's got the curve saber as well.
That's that's directed at you and logic because you both highlighted it.
Hello.
I forget the actual choreography of Dooku's face.
No problem.
And yeah, obviously, just the just the comment on top of this scene
is that Kylo could use the force to save himself at any moment.
And he just doesn't.
Yeah, that's weird.
Like if I was a Jedi, I don't think I'd ever forget that combat.
I can use the force is like it like in like I would be I would abuse that shit.
Like I'd be pushing, pulling, twisting, shocking, choking.
Like I don't want to get close to my enemies.
Like then they could hit me with her melee weapon would be dangerous.
Then they might beat me.
We saw that.
Yeah.
I don't want to fucking get hit.
Bring a new order to the galaxy.
I love her response is if he's reading words written in textbooks,
which since it's been said so many times by so many baddies should be.
I'm pretty sure she just doesn't want him.
She just doesn't want him to not be a good guy because she thought he was a good guy.
For some reason.
But it's also the first time I genuinely thought our protagonist might actually join.
Why?
Why?
Yeah, why would they?
Why would Ray join him?
What reason does she have to join the dark side?
What reason does she have to join the light side is another good question, to be honest.
Why is she even here?
Like why is she in these movies?
The point are antagonists because they have a real actual relationship they've been building.
The three times they had those very short conversations.
He just said they have a real actual relationship.
I mean redundancy aside, that's fucking retarded.
No, no, he used two of the two buzzwords we highlighted in the last eFAT.
We said real, actual, and genuine.
Oh, yeah.
Real, actual, genuine.
He said a real, actual, genuine relationship.
That's all he needed to make the trifecta.
Oh, so close.
Yeah.
But no, they don't have a relationship beyond some confusing middling lines between each other,
I'm afraid.
Also, the first time I genuinely thought our protagonist might actually join our
antagonists because they have a real, actual relationship.
Biblical, literal, actual hell.
If they've been building through this movie built on trust and common histories,
even though he's from all the bloodlines and she's from none.
Trust and common histories.
What?
Even though he's from all the bloodlines and she's from none.
I'm shocked at what he's pulling from this.
He actually thinks this movie isn't shit.
He's been fooled.
Oh, yeah.
The movie has somehow tricked him into thinking that it makes any semblance of sense.
Movie built on trust.
What do you mean?
What are you referring to?
Oh, and someone said genuine pops up earlier in the sentence.
I'm just going to rewind a bit because did he actually pull off the trifecta?
But it's also the first.
Oh, shit.
I genuinely thought he did it.
And they're right on top of each other.
They're in a little triangle.
That's beautiful.
That's amazing.
Someone said three conversations equals relationship.
I have autism and I know.
True.
How many people are we dating if it takes three conversations to have a relationship?
I'm dating my dad.
Neat.
Oh, I mean, obviously, he's not saying they're dating.
I'll give him that.
At least I know where I get the goods from.
Jesus.
First time I genuinely thought our protagonist might actually join our antagonist because
they have a real actual relationship they've been building through this movie built on trust
in common.
Built on trust.
He reads this like it's mocking.
Trust.
Trust of what?
It's in the inflection of his voice.
They tried to kill each other four days ago.
They tried to kill each other.
For some reason, he didn't kill her here.
But listen to the way that his voice is, his inflection when he reads this,
it sounds like he's mocking this idea and not actually believing it.
And I hate I hate to do this to you because it's obviously a critique of his writing,
but he's got no argument.
And so he says he actually cares for her.
And that's apparent.
It's like saying Ray is a good character.
And that's true.
Do you know what I mean?
It's like that's not an argument.
You just said the same thing twice and you've got no reference.
I'm sorry.
This is why you rescript, by the way, because when you read these back to yourself,
you should be like, Oh, shit, I didn't say anything just then.
But whatever.
And history is even though he's from all the bloodlines and she's from none.
He actually cares for her.
And that's apparent.
You have no place in this story.
You come from nothing.
You're nothing.
Call this a cop out.
I'm glad Ray is not a Skywalker or a Kenobi or didn't need it to be any of them.
Just needed to be something that explains something about her.
Allow her to fit into the actual universe because she just she's an exception.
She can be charged or a kid.
I would love charge on a beer father.
Like a age.
He used his midichlorian sperm to put her into a.
Do you think that's the reason why she can't close her mouth?
Because she's like part gungan.
And her face just doesn't work quite right.
Developed.
You cracked the code.
The genetics are still being worked out.
Someone said Ray banks.
And even if JJ does decide to give Ray a proper bloodline,
it doesn't change the fact that she grew up with no one and nothing and had only yourself.
That's fine.
It's not about giving it.
Just explain Ray.
That's what we're after.
Why is she so fucking good at everything and can do the force so fucking well with no training ever?
Like she's a prodigy.
She is like Jesus, man.
She's forced Jesus.
And yet, no, I agree with him.
You know what?
I'm glad she's not Luke's daughter or Obi-Wan's daughter because that is a little a tad predictable.
I just I don't want nothing.
Okay.
And again, if they had actually made her Luke's daughter,
I wouldn't have said that's bad writing.
I would have just been like, well, let's see how this fits in.
And you'd obviously call it a convenience that she's the one who ended up with all this
shit happening when she's also Luke's daughter.
But, you know, again, like, just give me something instead of just going, we couldn't we didn't write
that bit.
Okay.
Doesn't change the fact that she grew up with no one and nothing and had only herself.
And just because the expectation subversion was nothing doesn't mean it meant nothing.
It's the whole point.
She's not from a bloodline.
No, it's the opposite.
We want to know why.
Not from a bloodline.
And that's why her power matters.
Why her power matters.
No, we went an explanation.
How?
How come there aren't other rays?
Are there other rays out there who are just as inexplicably powerful with the force for
whatever reason?
Is there a is there a foil to ray out there?
Or to explain, does the kid have like an evil sweeper kid out there somewhere?
I don't.
I just I'm stuck at.
Raise power matters because it comes from nowhere.
And that's is he trying to say that that supports what the rest of the film is saying,
that the force and potent force power comes from nowhere.
Really, which is like, yeah, that's part of the problem.
No, it matters because of the effects of, you know, what it does.
That's why it matters.
That's why it warrants an explanation.
Well, this is the thing, the way he wears this.
She's not from a bloodline.
That's why her power matters.
Like he says that like it's a conclusion.
I don't really understand what he's saying.
It just raises more questions.
Version was nothing doesn't mean it meant nothing.
It's the whole point.
She's not from a bloodline.
That's why her powers matter.
Yeah, I need to develop that because I'm not really sure what he's saying.
That's definitely not a complete thought.
It's empty.
They're just trying to pull out attention away.
For the record, I think that's the main reason she was able to do it.
They could have blown her out of the sky if they didn't think she was just fleeing.
Why would they have if she was fleeing?
They were still blown her out of the sky.
And they try and it doesn't work in time.
Yeah, like what would have changed?
I think he says like they've been shooting it this whole time and inexplicably.
They can't destroy it, but they have been shooting it this whole time.
What would have changed?
Is that a small argument in favor of how Hyperspace Kamikaze totally makes sense?
Is that him trying to set this up?
I feel like he's going there.
Is he going to go there?
The executioners have a black stripe, kind of like a black hood.
Yeah, which is stupid.
That's true.
Okay, I guess.
They have a black stripe for design to signify their executioners,
which is something they commonly do.
They bring an executioner stole troopers.
Pull out attention away.
For the record, I think that's the main reason she was able to do it.
They could have blown her out of the sky if they didn't think she was just fleeing.
The executioners have a black stripe, kind of like a black hood.
They burned her hair.
Okay.
That's a win, apparently.
Wait, why does he hate Rose's hair?
I don't know.
I wish they burned more of her, quite frankly.
That is amazing.
The silence, the visual destruction, the self-sacrifice.
Uh, I agree with the second and third point.
Yeah, it looks and sounds cool.
This is amazing.
The silence, the visual, the destruction, the self-sacrifice.
All right, then.
Oh, that bullet sound of the bullet sounds like you fucking pled.
Okay.
It's a space bullet rag.
Can you imagine in a war, every single gun that shot just sounds like that?
I'm like a Formula One guy.
BVA to the rescue.
Reminds me of all the times R2.
Oh my God.
He's offending that too.
That's that is nowhere near the times.
Microcosm.
Oh wow, wow.
This is a microcosm of the method of defense.
So it's find something it's similar to.
Talk about how that old one was great.
And this one is great too, because they're the same
without referencing the fact that the context matters.
R2 never did this shit.
This is the, there's so many questions that come with this.
And what's the worst thing R2 has ever done?
He lit a couple droids on fire.
Oof, that's it.
If you remember, the whole reason they find that they're being evil
and running around the first order ship is because of BB-8, the evil BB-8 spots BB-8.
And then later they capture the people and they ignore BB-8.
He's in the bin and they're just like, yeah, I guess we missed him.
It's like, well, that's convenient.
And then he managed to get around the ship until he entered,
somehow got into this AT-ST, not 100% sure how.
And he set up so that it rips its own head off by strings,
so when he comes out that he actually defends everybody efficiently with it.
He like fucking fights a big portion of the first, the entire thing is horrible.
And what, we're supposed to compare that to R2-D2 opening a door?
Okay.
Yeah, someone said Shui got into an AT-ST and returned a Jedi.
Yep, that's a thing that happened, but that made way more sense.
Shui's a warrior.
He swung over a volume.
He's a Wookie, he's not a sentient soccer ball.
It would be funny if BB-8 just slipped off because of the fact that-
We don't even know if BB-8's sentient.
Well, I guess the other thing is-
He's moderately sentient.
Well, maybe his, what is it, inhibitor chip or whatever it was, came off.
So he's human now or something.
Look at all those stormtroopers. What are you looking at?
I guess you're, are they looking at BB-8?
Oh wait, somebody, somebody said the picture I asked for, but the tweet's been deleted now.
But I've still got the picture, so now I don't even know if I should share the picture because
he's deleted the tweet.
Send it again.
Yeah, I would just share it.
Just share it.
It's really good, so I'm celebrating this picture.
All right.
In memoriam.
Yeah.
No, it doesn't show up.
Oh, doesn't it?
It can't be found.
No.
All right, well, I can find, hang on.
But I can pull up the thing myself.
Yes, you have to copy the image directly and then paste it into Discord.
Snipping tool time.
Well, what if I do this?
Oh, that doesn't work.
Snipping tool.
Snipping tool.
Fine, snip away.
Let me one sec, guys.
This is important, okay?
Okay, I guess.
It's important.
I know.
I know.
Oh, wait, that's.
Well, it works surprisingly well.
Yeah, I'm sure I've believed other things on flimsy or evidence.
Jeez.
Jared Cena.
Michael, Michael Genesis.
Anyway, let's push on.
Blaster beam just ricochets.
Even if you.
Oh, sorry.
Did he not?
Hang on.
Let's go back a bit.
Sarah Genesis.
Blaster beam just ricochets.
Even if.
Is that funny?
Yeah.
So let's fucking laughs at anything.
Let's pretend that it makes complete sense.
Like a five year old in the sense that anything that he perceives
is being even remotely cool on any level.
He's like.
Let's pretend for a second that the arm of being consistently
bulletproof makes total sense, even though TFA exists.
Let's just pretend it totally makes sense.
A bullet being deflected off.
I don't.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Do you want?
Are we saying it was good CGI?
Like, yeah.
Yes.
I mean, okay.
I don't know.
It was cool.
I think that's what is pointed.
So if you think asthma again goes out like a sucker,
you have to admit this showdown.
It's pretty fun.
No, even if you think Fazma goes out like a sucker,
she ain't dead friend.
What?
Oh my god.
She's not dead again.
Pretty sure she's unless she's gonna have a surprise cameo
because Gwendolyn Christie is not on.
Well, not in the cast for.
And I'm pretty, you know, don't like to get any kind of political.
But if Gwendolyn Christie was going to be in the new Star Wars,
they would be playing it up because she'd be all over
talking about how amazing it is.
They have a female villain again.
Do you think they're going to do with Fazma the same thing
they did with Arnie and Terminator salvation?
She just where she just appears for no apparent reason.
This is my clone, my Fazma clone.
Check her IMDb.
She's got no nothing to do with.
Well, whatever episode nine is going to be like.
Episode nine's got an actual cast already.
There's a lot of people in it too.
But I don't I think she is dead, but apparently she's not dead.
And he said you have to admit the showdown is pretty fun.
I do agree.
I think it's stylish.
I think it's neat.
It's just got no character in it whatsoever.
It's kind of.
I was like, yeah, we we knew who was going to look.
Yeah, it's just meh.
And you know, this is the criticism.
People levy against the Darth Maul fight.
But I still argue that the Qui-Gon and Ewan McGregor
have more development from that film.
And they're fighting just the bad guy.
You know, like Fazmas played up as being.
So like the double has more screen time in his fight
than I think Fazma does in her entire run in the films.
But that would have to be tested, I suppose.
I can't say for a guarantee.
But yeah, what I'm saying is that people recognize it
as a problem in the prequels, but don't in the sequels.
It's like, OK, that seems fair.
Darth Maul had almost as much screen time at the end of Solo is.
As we did in all movies.
He's dead.
Badass bad guy.
Is that badass?
He's getting he's he's like a simpering little.
I think he's referring to Kylo.
Oh, I think I can't be referring to Hux, right?
Because I can't tell because this guy will fucking
clap on a flush toilet.
So who knows what he's saying?
A flush toilet.
Oh, a flush toilet.
Oh, a flush toilet.
Would you have a flush toilet?
Well, that that seems like it would be very comfortable,
but extremely impractical.
Imagine the kid a little plushy of a toilet.
I can imagine him flushing a toilet and going,
yeah, all right.
Well, that's one of the pretty shots in Star Wars, is it?
Also, obviously, the crystal critters are a wife win.
A wife.
You'd be forgiven.
Wife with.
Oh, do you mean wife or something?
You want to fuck the crystal fog?
I said this probably hurt.
I think, yeah.
Badass bad guy.
Well, that's one of the prettiest shots in Star Wars.
Again.
Yeah.
Nice shot.
I agree.
Sure.
Star Wars.
Also, obviously, the crystal critters are a wife win.
Don't know.
Oh, is he saying his wife likes them?
Nobody's married?
What are you?
You hate marriage now, Rags?
Is that it?
I'm like, I know.
Yeah, I do.
Fuck marriage.
You'd be forgiven if you miss this because it does happen fast.
But the two TIE fighters aren't attacking the base.
They're actually shooting at the stolen shuttle.
That's why only Rose and Finn.
No way.
Really?
Yeah, I figured that out.
It's not like that wasn't just the most obvious thing ever.
Yeah, my issue is that the good guys think this is bad guys right now.
And they took this long to close the fucking door for no reason
other than to allow Rose and Finn to get in here.
You know what I mean?
From a script perspective, that's why it was open still.
But for these guys, they just left it open for no reason.
Not to mention, they start shooting at it the instant it comes through.
So they don't know that it's Rose and Finn that are in there.
Well, he's not making that point.
I am.
I'm saying that it's stupid.
They left the door open because they wouldn't.
But they do in order for Rose and Finn to be able to get in here.
Otherwise, they couldn't.
They just fucking crashed.
Okay, gotcha.
Door.
That was their goal.
The TIE fighters were just trying to destroy them.
Yeah, that's fine.
You're right.
What?
Why is that something to even point out?
It's like really obvious.
One shuttle.
That's why only Rose and Finn make it under the door.
What was the point?
That was their goal.
The TIE fighters were just trying to destroy them.
Ed, you're done.
Oh, there.
Okay.
Sorry.
I thought he was pointing to the floor.
I was like, wait, wait, wait.
But yeah, that is Edgar Wright.
But there's a lot more cameos than that in this film and in TFA.
But.
Right.
Who cares?
No, I...
Yeah, that gives us Gareth Edwards.
Man, these Crystal Foxes are really friendly people.
And Gareth Edwards.
Oh, there you go.
Now, this is pub racing?
Nah.
We've seen these high contrast images since the first trailer.
But that doesn't take away from how beautiful it actually is.
Yes, it's a pretty image.
It's pretty image.
Just laugh at the pretty...
Clap at the pretty colors.
Yes, congratulations.
Ryan Johnson.
Yes.
Yeah.
He realized that you people will fucking...
You'll just go gaga.
I mean, come on.
I learned that in like the third grade.
This is the kind of person who goes outside
and starts picking up shiny things off the sidewalk with his teeth.
Someone said, I saw Edgar Wright and I clapped.
I clapped for colors.
I saw Gareth Edwards and I clapped.
Do you think he's like Buddy the Elf where he like picks gum off the side of the sidewalk
and he's like, well, it tastes really good.
It's like American Beauty.
He just looks at the trash bag in the wind.
He's like, do you know what this means?
Do you know what this represents?
Like, is it just trash of the wind?
No.
This is the meaning of life.
The aesthetic of the red underneath the white is wholly unique and stunning.
No, it's not.
It's not.
Red milk cake.
I'm wholly unique and stunning.
Whatever.
I mean, come on.
Okay, I'm going to destroy this and I really I really don't want to use this example
because it crushes my soul to use this example.
But Twilight did that like years before this and red on white.
Yes, there's no way something hasn't done red on white.
Obviously, but look at how far they had to go.
Why didn't they drop?
I know.
Look how far that tracks right there.
And how slow would those poor stormtroopers on the ground?
They must have had a walk.
It's like, can we just can we just step on the cannon?
Like, no, walk.
So does this like get rid of any fuel scarcity arguments?
The fact that they dropped them off so fucking far away.
There's the thing.
They have no there's no reason they can't be dropped closer.
There's no cannons like they are an empire.
There's no anything.
So why drop them so far away?
The first order learned from the Empire's mistakes on Hoth
and beefed up the legs of their gorilla walkers so they can't be harpoon tripped.
By what?
But they still have 8080s here.
Let's let's cycle back.
Yeah, it just showed the like littler 8080s next to him.
The aesthetic of the red underneath the white is wholly unique.
Stunning.
Right there.
8080 Amber there.
And I don't think that those things would prevent the harnesses from toppling them still.
Yeah, I mean, that just looks like they'd be more laser resistant.
If all the point of them was that they can climb up walls now
because they've got like claw hands sort of things.
I don't know if you saw that and I was just like,
I don't know if that will come in handy at some point.
Just to me, it just looks like more armor on the front legs, which makes sense.
But yeah, because that's the facing, you know, the enemy side, but.
They also made them like twice the size.
Yeah.
The idea that the First Order learned from the Empire's mistakes on Hoth
and beefed up the legs of their gorilla walkers so they can't be harpoon tripped.
Yeah, see how it like.
Is that the reason why?
See how they get hooks around.
Like I thought the purpose of this was that they can actually climb over obstacles.
But that makes sense.
I don't know.
Triple kill.
Chewie and Ray to the rescue and the Falcon.
He just says triple kill.
Triple kill.
Ding.
Been announced just by a familiar sound and shadow.
Wait.
Yeah, fine.
Yeah, it was cool.
It was a silhouette of the Falcon and the sound of the Falcon instead of the Falcon.
Hey, no, I'm almost there.
Retreat Finn.
That's an order.
At this point, Finn and Poe's arcs cross.
Where Poe originally was the hero, looking through the deed, no matter the cost.
And Finn still didn't care about-
He was the hero.
That shouldn't be in quotes.
He was the hero.
Poe was the actual hero.
Just let him ignore all of the contradictive information and cherry pick a neat little
line of consistency out of it.
There's so many ways to pick apart how wrong this is going to be.
Finn and Poe, their characters are just fucked in this film in terms of thematic
inconsistency.
The narrative fights the theme, which is the last thing you want to do when you write a story.
But the resistance, just Ray.
Now Poe is starting to become a leader and Finn is willing to lay down his life for the resistance.
Or-
So I guess this film thinks that leaders are the ones who always make the worst decisions
at all times?
Apparently.
You know what I just realized?
How did Finn get his old outfit back?
Maybe it was underneath this one.
Yeah, it's a lot of padding.
Yeah, it looks pretty padded there.
Because he had Poe's jacket on.
I would.
If it was me, I wouldn't have.
That's your opinion though.
Yeah, I guess.
Maybe it was to keep the salt out.
Somebody drew this, what we've been requesting.
They actually drew it.
They didn't even-
Oh god, really?
Okay, okay.
That's pretty good.
While there are better photoshops, this guy wins just for the effort.
I like the face.
It's insane.
That is amazing.
I can't believe someone actually drew that.
It's awesome.
I love it.
We need to have a collage of all the fan art and photoshops.
Of this specific thing?
Well, no, of everything.
Because people have done it with Jared too.
That's true.
We did post all the Geradi Mundi ones, but I don't know where they are now,
other than going through all my Twitter.
Which I could, but I mean.
God, that's amazing.
Whoever drew that, you're amazing.
Oh god, don't you dare defend this.
So first, I'm taking a win away because that's what he was trying to do.
Oh, thank god.
Okay, okay.
Wow.
Cool.
High five, cinema wins.
High five.
Wow, you fucking- Jesus Christ.
Finally did something that wasn't-
When even this can't get in the ass.
We have said this is probably like the worst piece of dialogue in the saga.
It's just because of how backwards everything is.
So at least he's okay with that one.
Flying down the throat of that thing was his way of saving what he loved,
the people in the base.
So her line is sweet and I get it, but don't accuse him of not getting that.
But more importantly, there's just no reason to think that the slowly melting ship would have
any impact on the battering ram that's specifically made to-
Okay, what happens when shit looks at-
Look, when something goes into a barrel that isn't designed to be that thing in the barrel,
usually fucks it up.
Yeah, let's just pretend for a second you put even a Cheerio inside the barrel of a gun.
That bullet's probably not going to shoot straight.
Something could happen.
Anything could happen.
I'm trying to say like-
Like a pebble, some sand, anything.
I was going with the Cheerio to say like, even if the most limited of things goes in
that barrel, shit's going to change.
Absolutely.
So if a whole ship flies into this beam, like, that's going to fuck it up.
And yeah, his ship is maybe melting, but it doesn't mean it's not metal still.
Yeah, it still has mass.
And it still has fuel in there, which can create an explosion.
Someone said it called the internals of the mechanism with like melted metal.
Yeah, if it melted down, it would pretty much just shoot all that shrapnel and crap
coming apart.
And it's certainly not completely destroyed because Finn is still alive inside it.
Someone said, this makes anti-sense, Bilbo Baggins.
Think bird in an aircraft engine.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's brought down planes before.
There we go.
Things.
Po knew it.
Rose, the girl who inspected the skim speeders, knew it.
The only one that didn't get it.
Well, why the hell did they bother in the first place?
How where's her little thingy that touches the ground?
If she knew it wouldn't work, then why the hell did they try?
What was the point?
They just wanted to kill themselves.
Wait, okay.
It was Finn.
So she ended up saving him from wasting his life for nothing.
No one's ever really gone.
I'm really glad these two got a chance to be together.
Yeah, I'm glad they got to spend five seconds with each other as opposed to two movies.
Aren't you guys glad about that?
Oh, yeah, I'm glad that they were five seconds away from it being literally non-existent.
Yeah, I'm glad that Luke and Han never.
Yeah, that makes me really happy.
I'm glad that Luke and Chewie never had any interaction.
I'm glad that fucking just fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, just fuck,
fuck these movies and what they did to the potential to have these characters reunited.
Just to sort of go for the angle of apologists,
because I genuinely do get the impression of that from him.
Instead of talking about it from like a neutral base,
like how much do we get with these people?
And of those moments, what a good.
He just says, I'm really glad these two got a chance to be together on screen as if they
couldn't as if we were always in the position that they couldn't really be together.
And so we were lucky to have this.
Yeah, that's ridiculous.
That's something that they wrote.
That was a completely arbitrary decision that they made when they created the films.
You really can't create moments like this.
You literally can create moments like this.
It's in the script.
I was going to say, this is them creating a moment like this.
I don't know what he means by that.
Yeah, you just write it into the movie.
This character and character meet.
They say these words.
The scene is this.
Few moments, few pieces of music.
Give me the right.
Well, you'll fucking clap at anything, won't you?
I'm glad it did that for you.
Cinema wins.
I'm glad you got a good experience.
I'm glad you got some enjoyment out of this.
The same melody is just repeated.
See the videos in the film.
Tensity.
Everyone stares at Luke as if they're seeing a ghost.
That just reminded me of when Jared was like fucking R2D2 and Chewbacca.
Do you remember?
Well, it rags.
Remember Major Lee?
He's like, people say the knowledge goes on in TFA.
What they don't forget is Kylo's in it.
Hux is in it.
Phasma's in it.
He just names characters.
Yes.
Yes, they are in it.
This is true.
Or a legend.
And he plays into the legend.
Why is he a legend?
It's fucking everyone's alive.
This is the fact that he's a legend doesn't make any sense.
It does not make any sense that he isn't a universally known figure that everybody
can recognize and understand.
He's been here all the time.
Yeah, he's not even dead for starters.
And everyone's alive.
Like he's alive.
People are alive who know him and have seen him and fought with him.
Like he's not a legend.
Well, he certainly shouldn't be considering the last 10 years he ran away to go die.
That's not exactly legendary.
Like everyone would be like, where'd he go?
He just disappeared.
That's weird.
Should we search parties?
The music finally crescendos.
We get a badass good guy.
Okay.
Okay.
I mean, it's fun to believe he...
You like that laughing that he does.
It's like a cinema sense does the same thing.
That's what I find interesting about it.
But come on.
Force knowledge doesn't feel real.
It's not a real laugh.
Unfortunately, no.
I mean, it's fun to believe he could force block 1,000 layers of a car.
Force knowledge isn't invincibility.
What's more...
Well, how do you explain Ray?
Seems to be that's the case.
Pretty fucking close.
What's more important is that he embraced being a legend.
Sure.
Invincibility.
What's more important is that he embraced being a legend.
But still so awesome either way.
Yeah, I'll fucking clap at anything.
He liked it.
Leave him alone.
Don't get distracted.
I'll go.
You know what bothers me about that, that I didn't highlight in my video.
Why would Hux want to prevent Kylo from potentially killing himself?
Yeah.
Hux should be like, that's a great idea, Lord.
I support you all the way.
We'll be here to give you covering.
And then as soon as he leaves, be like, everyone fire on Kylo now.
Oh, that would have been cool thinking about it.
Kill the Supreme Leader.
Fire on Kylo.
I'll protect you, Kylo, says Luke.
And then Kylo gets killed and Hux takes over as the main villain for episode nine.
And then I, and when everyone says that sucks, I go,
it's subvert your expectations.
That's why you didn't like it.
Yeah.
How are you going to feel?
You guys, you know, if episode nine undoes the last Jedi,
you guys are looking forward to making that argument.
If anybody who loved the last Jedi doesn't like episode nine,
we can just say it's subverted your expectations.
It's better disproven by the directors themselves and they still make arguments defending it.
Right away, sir.
Loyalty.
Loyalty.
Stop laughing.
He didn't do it out of loyalty.
He just saw you fucked up that guy.
Yeah, I was going to maybe that's the joke.
I don't know, but it's just space out the laughing.
Lightsabers.
He's doing this for a reason.
I clapped for blue.
So we can escape.
The guy who did this would realize that's what Luke is doing.
A Leia has an urgent message for him about his mother.
Yeah, no, sorry.
Well, I hate to have to.
I feel like we've said this before, but with Major Lee, but here we go again.
So the idea is opposed like Luke is delaying everything so that we can escape.
It's like Luke didn't tell anyone that on his way out.
It would have been extremely helpful to do that.
Be like, guys, they were like, like start looking for an exit.
I'm going to delay them.
That's all we have to do.
Here's the thing.
Earlier on, Luke thinks that they want him to go out and face down the first order himself
and take care of the problem himself.
He has no reason to believe that they will think that he's making a distraction.
Yeah, and if he was, why would you not tell them to give them more time?
And secondly, C-3PO says there are no exits in this place other than the front door.
And it's like, oh, shit.
And then as soon as Luke does that, they're like, are there any exits?
And then I think C-3PO says, like, according to the schematics, there may be an exit.
It's like, oh, weird that you said there was none.
And then the second that Luke implies they might find wood, you say there is.
He did the opening senile.
It's just how you change your stakes on the fly,
because you just want to generate different payoffs.
I was wrong.
They're like, oh, that's good.
I wonder how long it's going to take them to kill C-3PO and R2D2.
Horrifically murder C-3PO.
They die with-
Like, do you think they'll even kill them?
Or will they just be like the only two star characters that last throughout everything?
I think they'll last.
I think it's almost like it might be a rule.
You're not allowed to kill either of those characters,
like whatever directors and writers take over.
Yeah, they might just forget him at some point.
Oh, that's an idea.
3PO is the mole.
And he has been since the beginning.
He's just been waiting for time to strike.
He might hold us about to do the hyperspace thing,
and he's behind her and he slits his throat and goes, quiet now.
Quiet.
You can even play the Terminator 2 theme when he does it.
Like, slowly waddling forward.
Dark 3PO.
That'd be amazing.
Your time has come.
I'm actually scared by this.
And then R2D2 makes that low sound when you seize it.
On straight, why didn't they just barricade themselves inside the cave,
let the first order blow the door and trap the invading troopers in a bottleneck?
Well, that would imply that they would have to think.
Yeah, stop pretending like they make plans.
That's not a thing they do.
God, I'm offended.
No, no, we are the spark that'll light the fire that'll burn the first order.
I remember that line from the trailer,
making me really into the potential for this film.
Yeah, but there's like, what, 20 guys left?
Yeah, so it really is weird at this point.
You're like, uh, go right the best.
Like, we can do these guys.
I admire your optimism.
Poe fulfills his leadership arc.
Yes, the arc is completely contradictory, but it's an arc, I'll give you that.
Fulfills his leadership arc, and Leia even acknowledges it.
Follow him.
Yep, the film definitely shoves it right in there in the dialogue,
but it didn't manage to maintain it consistently.
You won't kill you like I will.
Luke's foot doesn't actually interact with the salt when Kylos does.
Except his clothes and hair are affected by the wind.
Oops.
Uh-oh.
He forgot that part.
Yeah, I think I have to, I can't remember if he was ER or some of the content creator
that highlighted that, but uh, it's not something I picked up on my FaceTime through.
But maybe he just made his vision version of himself have nothing hair,
but he can't actually affect the real world, which involves moving the salt on top.
Why did the vision version of himself have short hair,
and why didn't he have his green lightsaber?
Why does it flow with the wind?
Because he made it flow with the wind.
Why does the sunlight affect him in the way that it does?
Yeah, he casts a shadow logic.
How'd you explain that?
Oh, does he cast a shadow?
He definitely does.
Visualize the shadow?
Why is he able-
Oh, fuck.
If he cast a-
Oh.
Why is he able to give Leia a pair of very physical dice that
she just happens to not think anything of?
If he cast a shadow, holy fuck, that kind of-
Why did the dice stay after Luke has died?
Because he transferred his Force Vision to Leia,
because she's Force-sensitive?
Question mark?
Leia just kept the dice going for a while.
It totally makes sense.
Luke's foot doesn't actually interact with the salt when Kylos does.
Thank you.
Yep.
You can say, oh, but he's just a projection.
That was really what-
But Kylo's still not making contact.
That's not-
Who even made that argument?
No one's saying that.
Resistance is dead!
He's casting a fucking shadow!
There's masks there blocking the light!
Shut up.
It makes sense.
Don't kill the last Jedi!
Amazing.
Every word of what you just said was wrong.
More honesty.
But not everything he said was wrong, though, because-
Oh, I'm not even going to go into it.
I will not be the last Jedi.
And that's Luke realizing he still had things to learn,
even about the Jedi.
And that-
He can't learn much of anything now.
He's dead.
Oh, it bothers me to no end that Luke spent that long
solely learning about the Jedi.
And then some girl walks up to him and says,
by the way, they're not all bad because you saved your dad.
And that was apparently enough for him to have a revelation.
Well, no, it was-
Fuck you for making Luke such an idiot.
...for 30 years.
Poor Luke Skywalker reduced to such a useless idiot.
Like, I can't get-
Like, genuinely one of my favorite characters in anything ever.
And this is what becomes of him.
Star Wars is just, like, for me,
I block out seven and eight.
Like, I don't even think they exist.
I forget they exist.
I just block out everything that came after six, to be honest.
I love how he's describing Rey as Grey, by the way.
When she's ultimately altruistic,
she never makes a negative decision.
I even block out half of six, like the Ewok part.
There's a lot where six is confusing.
It gets pretty much thrown out,
and it's pretty much two and a half movies are what Star Wars is.
Yeah, when has Rey made a morally ambiguous choice in her life?
Saving Kylo?
That's totally morally ambiguous, because he's easy.
Yeah, let's put her up to light Yagami and say,
oh, yeah, I'm Grey.
Version of being a Jedi may actually have merit.
And even if it's right before he goes, Luke's back.
No, he isn't hugging.
No, he's not.
He's literally not there.
Knee down in anger, and I'll always be with you.
Ooh, a threat that cuts right to your soul.
But it didn't because he went and attacked.
Yeah, it's a twist on what Kenobi said to Vader.
Actually, it's an emotional promise to Kylo.
That's a twist on Ben Kenobi.
He's saying, you kill me.
It's OK.
I'm going to be with you in your heart.
And that's nice, but it's kind of weird
after all those sort of jabs he gave Kylo.
He's like, lol, everything he just said was wrong.
But I love you.
It's like, OK.
It's a threat to Vader.
Oh, yeah, Kylo felt really threatened.
Deliberate skit of his feet as if drawing the blood
he thinks he created with that stroke.
Is it?
Um, maybe.
Again, like, fine.
Visually, it's good.
I mean, is anyone arguing that this movie is visually bad?
I don't.
I mean, Wolf was 50-50 on that, I believe, were you?
I, well, when I first came back from the movie,
I was that that movie looked incredible.
And then when I watched it again, I was like, oh,
there's a lot more issues with this than I thought.
Yeah.
Can you name a couple?
I'm just curious.
Uh, I know about to wait, but can't bite is just ugly as hell.
Yeah.
OK.
Yeah, that's true.
It looks like a prequel movie.
Yeah, it looks like episode one to you.
He's like, oh, geez, you're saying like that.
Lightsabers cauterize wounds.
There would be no blood spray.
That's true.
Yeah.
Shut up.
Doesn't match the
bad ass good guy in a few minutes.
He channels both Obi-Wan and Han bringing everything full circle.
Oh, my God.
You're reaching so.
Wow.
I just picture like.
Whereas previous Star Wars films may have struggled with pain to yells.
Let's say Ray and Kylo do not.
Sorry.
What was this point?
So she's a reading the yeah, I should care.
Why?
Yeah, people sucked at yelling in the other movies.
And then this one yelling in this one.
OK, fine.
One last moment of staring out of the double sun horizon is a very apropos.
And don't worry.
This isn't the last one.
Probably obvious, but no one who vanishes into the force has ever gone forever.
I mean, I liked it.
It's just it needs to be in a better film.
What happened to fucking Mace Windu?
Yeah, he didn't exactly vanish.
I want that edit where he has this emotional if you like, you just fade away and then you.
Oh, OK.
Oh, that's what that's what he meant.
I want the editor in a fantastic final shot for the entire like nine films.
Yeah, that's where I was.
The last thing before the final credits.
I think so.
Yeah, it's great.
But yeah, it's a great scene for a great movie that it's not in a great movie, though.
Right.
I know.
And it's in the eighth movie.
Like, what the fuck?
Yeah.
Luke is returning after this scene, which feels awkward to me.
But hey, whatever.
Yeah, you know, if Luke died this way, I wouldn't mind it.
It's just the way that it happened that makes me lose my mind.
Yeah, I want that where he has this emotional description for how a Jedi dies.
They're never really gone and then just rags his reaction with the clip of Mace Windu
just getting booped out of the fucking window.
What about Mace Windu?
You know, someone's someone's probably going to do that.
Just it's so fundamentally like it's such a profound statement.
It's ruined by some guy going, what about this?
We had a guy we literally just had a guy in the span of an hour draw Kyle Sarah.
So I imagine that before the end of the night, we're going to have exactly that video sent to us.
Kyle Ben.
I like this little hint that it was more than just Snoke's bridge.
More importantly, Rey shuts the door on her past when Kylo so clearly could not.
What do you mean?
She shuts the door on him and not a past.
She's looking at him.
She's done.
Which is a part of Snoke's dead.
So how is the bridge still going?
What do you mean?
She shuts the door in her past.
What do you mean?
Crate?
Is Crate Rey's past?
She's fucking leaving.
What do you mean?
Write that down for the April Fools video.
I'm going to shut the door on my past.
I mean, I'll put that in just for you.
I'm going to say as a critic, I have decided to shut the door on my past.
I cannot wait for your April Fools video.
Holy shit.
You pure tizzle by this point.
Well, now in Finn and Rey being better and sister in the next movie,
at least we have love interest for everyone.
Whoa, brother and sister love interests.
I'm still waiting for Poe X Finn.
I see the resemblance.
But brother and sister love interests.
Am I not the only one that's picking this up?
That's a bit of a strange thing to say.
The Lannisters send their approval.
Why would he how would he miss that?
Unless it's Paul.
Is it a joke?
I don't even know at this point.
Whenever I don't understand a part of a video,
I need a note on my PC that says ask if it's a joke because that might be it.
Luke is gone, but it wasn't sadness or pain.
It was peace and purpose.
Yes, tell us because you couldn't show it.
Tell us.
Fuck it.
And it's a huge part why I hate The Last Jedi as well.
Every theme, every everything about the subtext is plowed into the dialogue.
I sure wish they rescued us from slavery instead of those animal things.
Oh, I know, but we can't talk about it anymore.
Yeah, he coming back.
Luke Skywalker, Jedi master.
We got it.
And how the fuck did this story spread so quickly?
And to these people, how is that even possible?
Like I said in my video, I just love the idea that the Stormtroopers spread it
because they're like, yeah, we saw this guy.
Anyone may be a Jedi.
Don't you mean anyone?
What is this about the Jedi?
I thought you said earlier that the Force don't belong to the Jedi.
But he was wrong about it.
It doesn't matter.
It's what he said.
That's what he said.
Apparently, the Young Turks have supported the ER as an anti-Semitic YouTuber.
Of course, of course.
Someone said a group called the Young Turks accusing anyone of race.
Oh, I feel really sad about that, man, because like,
he was so happy that he got the shout out.
And now this is what's happening.
I feel sad about it.
I've loved this video.
Nothing good can ever just happen on YouTube anymore.
You have to have some fucking SJWs, man.
I try to drag you down, tear you down, remove the success that you've built up,
accuse you of some shit that obviously isn't true.
They want to try to ruin your life.
They want to take away your platform.
They want to take away your audience from you.
Because that's what these people fucking do.
They're terrible, disgusting people.
That's what they fucking do.
Anytime I know anything about the Young Turks,
just seeing compilations of their reactions to when people get elected,
because it's hilarious.
There was a new one for the 2018 election,
or whatever people got voted.
It was just them losing their shit again.
They don't seem to have a good reputation from what I know,
but maybe that's because I don't know.
The Young Turks don't have a good reputation among people who aren't like rabid SJWs.
We need a meme folder.
Look at this.
Can I show it for...
Terminator 2 3PO.
That's the fucking cold dead face though.
T3PO.
I will be back.
I have wrestled for, well almost a year now.
with truth be told I started writing this script on December 16th 2017 and
have adding anything deleting tweaking rewording and otherwise just trying to
write since then I can't even tell you how many words I've written about this
movie just kidding I was a little over 14,000 I speak it's still going that was
because something in my head and I just read it I found out that a lot of the
same ideas come to me yeah I've lost any ability to even control even tell you
how many words I've written about this is my stream still going that's a
concern yeah so shows it going on my end all right that's something oh god I
got a cycle past all the Michael Sears get to get to the link oh yeah let me
put the C 300
oh is the second one yeah give me one second I am sorting out getting watch
together backs you just died on me oh how long have we been going for a while
nearly five hours what am I hearing oh oh the thing started playing video is
not working for me like even a little bit all right it should be at 22 23 I
might have to make a new room at this point cuz it's yeah it's the universe
telling us the efap has come to an end kill it if you have to it will never be
worse than this all right I'm gonna try and make a new room if that doesn't work
watch together might be dead for me and if that's the case we might have to stop
which might be a shame because I think he's about to get to a substantive
argument just scored his disc or his screen share oh yeah but I'm not set up
for it like I don't know how much what kind of like I could maybe do it for the
next one but yeah watch together just not working like I'm trying to boop new
rooms and the video is just dead
I'm booked by no rooms
why you do this well do it I'm gonna use the lube
all right I mean we could do a part two to tackle the other half of this video
maybe that makes sense considering this a pretty solid halfway point and we're at
four hours 44 what do you reckon wouldn't be the first time we've done it
yeah we we've decided then that we will split into two
mainly because of the fact that I can't get washed together to work right now
I got tired like two and a half hours ago to be honest
um it's but you know he made he made lots of good arguments you agree with
that right no what racist I don't like people who
like films um someone said that we efap too hard
oh my chat all just loaded up all chafed and red now it's horrible
yeah oh no yeah my chat just reloaded maybe
watch together works oh I think it I think it is
did logic say anything for this stream uh for the first half
I have okay so it's working again now so now I don't know what to do
someone in the chat said tyt heard you were talking shit
I got food on the way so I will have my energy
back for some more fapping if you continue
uh if not then then yeah I got food downstairs too
okay I'm trying to think of what the best way to do I'll
I'll read the super chats till I get to the end of them and there's a lot so
that'll probably square out for an ending we could take a
break into a part two would you guys be okay with that or
yeah I can do yeah rags he's not here is he okay I'll have more energy after
food I will present that argument for rags as
well once he's back uh I'll just read super chats for now so um
we'll join rags we'll do what you tell him to do
he's a good boy maybe you know you got off from treats
um I rags beer go home rag you're drunk
I rags rags do the gay
balstock alactica did being chased by a superior force also why
not use the b wings bombers or the y wings because they weren't thematically
accurate you need them to be this new thing that ryan johnson's
invented I leave for two hours and you're only four
minutes in that's that's true do you have a watch together my watch
together is working again now but I was gonna say
what what's your thoughts on taking a break and then possibly doing a part two
for the second half of this video rags um I would need to like
eat and stuff well logic and wolf both want to have
food so yeah I yeah so we could do like a half an
hour even an hour break if you really wanted
give that hello yeah yeah works for me all right well in that case
um I'll read the rest of these and then we'll close out and
we might come back it's not a guarantee that's all that's how I'll put it
let's be a fan this might snap his fingers in the time that we're gone
yes uh pleasantly surprised to see this love your work
thank you howdy howdy came in late just want to say again I love you guys
cute the excellent work thank you wolf please make a video on force and
leash two I started playing it again and recently and holy shit I found
how much I hated the Gorog fight actually no I hated the second mission
in general oh man I played the force and lease two
shortly after I came out with my first force unleashed video
because I was like oh maybe I like it better no no no it was so much worse
than I remembered it being I might make a video on it someday but
yeah I don't have any plans for that right now can I point something out here
yeah hold on I have a phone call
it's a nice ringtone you got there you just don't understand the deep yo mama
theme of star wars of course the light side of the
force has green yeah yeah I have a generic ringtone it's fantastic
oh that was quick I'll be right back
um and the dark side has cookies which one would you join based on that
so cookies or milk guys well milk can have soy in it so I'm
gonna say cookies cookies could be made with soy stuff
maybe less less I don't know it might not happen
oh this is uh so this is from fury gods hey wolf if you want
things to help in the video you're planning on making for razor fist talk
about how he blocks people from moderately disagreeing with him on
twitter I know about that it honestly doesn't
shock me since he's a stephen molyneux fan and he blocked me
too it's fun you racist I don't care he's an
idiot either way but I i'm going to pretty much stay clear of
like any personal stuff and just address his terrible arguments in
regards to the witcher and elric so I'm probably not going to address that
I don't think it's really pertinent uh Avengers 4 the quest for peace
watch anti-trekker he does give an interesting reason why Leia did slash
could survive in space and he hated the last Jedi
fair enough merry christmas you spanky little boys
beautiful I'm new so I've been binge watching the lore I just finished the
girona genisa podcast you start new stream
also where is wolf coming back I'm assuming this related to the videos
as opposed to efap because obviously he's right here
yeah uh I don't know not sure he's not sure
if er dies we riot it's true three-parter why do you think critics
love TLJ so much are critics legit anymore are Disney and other
corporations slash studios getting corrupt like studio system of 1930s
uh sure possibly you know I just think this bad
writing I'm pretty sure Disney want to make money while simultaneously
hoping to make good stuff I imagine I imagine they want to do that
all you do is nitpick bilbo swaggins beautiful don't have twitter sent you
kylo michael a discord pm oh I can't look at pm's until I've
finished streams so um I guess we'll try and collect them
or something and showcase them at some point
maybe I'll do that for the next episode actually I'll collect them up and then
we'll show them um all you pure innocent soul I know
shammy's been brought before but he recently made a really well
made overwatch versus paladins video you guys should check out
oh yeah I saw it I don't play overwatch so I wouldn't be able to
I don't know if it well it was a pretty good video either way
I wish he made more than like one video he uploads less than er
oh uh upon seeing eric taxon's twitter not the dragon I was expecting dildo
I mean I just noticed the re in the title isn't
mocking the autistic screeching from cinema winds fans or something like that
it's reply yeah it's supposed to be reply but it is
re I must leave due to where crap good luck and I'll download this as soon as I
get off and let's start a savy our campaign I I seriously fucking hope they
don't boot him off youtube it's gonna be really sad
the kill vader is to kill a part of himself thereby foreshadowing their
relation to each other yeah I don't I didn't understand that
bit of this video even a little bit um ere fap when well I'll like I said
I'll send him a message we'd like to have him on I'm pretty
sure wolf you'd probably like that right yeah I've been watching them ever
go ahead guys guys guys stop bashing the movie there's women in the film just
look at the women well the women aren't very attractive
so that's true I thought Luke's face in the helmet was
the dark side showing Luke that he had an evil in him Luke
being an optimist instead saw the good invader that's I think that's a fair
interpretation as well like I said I just thought of it as you kill vader you
could easily become vader
it ties in more to this the next episode if you want
does Kylo call his dick the dividing driver
don't um possibly maybe maybe for his very well might
any thoughts on Jared not being in youtube rewind
that would have been amazing it's just one of many reasons why youtube rewind
is immensely disappointing you guys should do an efap on in defense of
the last jedi movies with mikey it's a doozy kind of similar to just rice
videos we did cover his infinity war one um
you know maybe one day we'll get around to the last jedi one since
that seems to be what's going to be consistent about efap as we cover um
last jedi videos every once in a while you're gonna cover the last jedi
until episode 12 comes out why would we stop then
uh merry christmas force lightning is a dark side power
that's yeah but fuck it whatever uh anyone can do it now rose is the mole
the whole time changed my mind dude if she turned out to be evil in
episode nine there's so many things jj could do that's
why i'm excited to see died i'm just like how much you gonna fuck over riot
i'm curious you guys hear that er is being hunted down by the msm
pewds shout out is causing him grief yeah yeah the verge made an article on it
stupid going to crate sends them into a hole with next to no resources no one
answered their beacon also where his ghost anakin just said his grandson
right if you just ignore the other films this
what was it quinton said this is only a sequel if you interpret it that way
i don't know if logic yeah something something to that effect
such a good line uh gas the jar was it's just
she does push his bicep with her forearm to block
push his bicep with her forearm with the way we had it paused he's clearly free
to push forward though
you just yeah yeah i saw that super chat before
um and we replayed the clip it doesn't look like that besides
she was struggling to even keep him back at all
and she just totally let go i don't think anything was going to
really affect that come on guys stopped caring we know ray's father is it's the
riddler from batman because she's obviously an enigma in this story
edward nigma get it nigma get you guys need to see batman
you got no have you not seen batman forever are you not are you not
cultured no double shoe marker's masterpiece
the greatest batman no okay i'm good uh the argument that always drives me
crazy is ray shows that anyone can be powerful
these people are falling over for the same trick as the lottery
it's star wars the idea that everybody is super force powerful
how much would that just ruin star wars feel like everyone's running around with
super force powers
nor is supposed to be about supposed to be about training and earning those
powers but whatever i think the hair joke was a
reference to space balls you know that they shot my hair line
which one was that in his video i mean i think he was talking about uh burning
rose's hair during the execution scene one person
out of billions was randomly selected to be space jesus that's not relatable it's
impossible totally relatable happy boxing day not
quite boxing day but thanks uh on crate why didn't they just
barricade oh yeah we did respond to that one uh horror movie spin-off idea
ben solo's weird uncle peed on him in his sleep oh no peeped on
him sorry and relentlessly uh jedi academy it
continues to peep on him in death episode nine's gonna have it i'm gonna
show peed on him relentlessly i'm half expect i'm half expecting a
scene in episode nine where he's like alone kylo and then luke appears as a
force ghost fucking have a conversation and it'll just
it'll just raise the question where the hell the force ghost bid
but whatever uh unrelated the verge just wrote an er hit piece calling him
anti-semitic and the young tix agreed shocking
yeah i'll give you two dollars to come back oh wait
mauler did you know you mumble when you sleep oh
it's creepy very creepy who cares who darth vader was just some tall guy in a
robo suit exactly might want to lock yourself in a
different room tonight mauler and i did it that's a little super chat
successful so we're gonna close out on halfway through this video or at least
yeah that's nearly halfway um someone said every frame paused relentlessly
i mean that would describe this one 22 minutes
in five hours that's that's our worst that's our worst probable rate
ever but uh this this was exhausting for part two it'll be more exhausting but
at least i'll have some fucking burritos in me and they say that
youtubers don't do work exactly so thank you all for watching and
for your kind donations and of course thank you
logic for being a guest only to suffer through even more soon enough
potentially um yeah yeah i'll try to talk more once i
actually have like a brain from food food brain i haven't i haven't eaten
really i had some chips we all we all need energies yeah yeah i've had some
problems concentrating because i've been like
hungry i've had a sandwich today and that's
about it yeah yes thank you all folks and we shall see you next time
good day goodbye
