I already went live. Tricked you.
You son of a bitch.
You guys thought you had two seconds to spare, but no.
Tricked you.
You're a liar. I haven't had a notification for it at all.
But a liar and a scoundrel?
No, I'm going to get all flustered.
And you can sue me like maula exposed starts podcast.
Yeah, I promise.
Hello, chads. Salutations.
That's what people say, right?
Normal people. Salutations, salutations.
Yeah, that worked in demolition, man.
Oh, man, I love demolition.
Greetings and salutations.
More I think about is like, oh, man, I love films from that were made before I was alive.
Is it not a bit?
Is it not kind of scary that demolition, man, is kind of reality now?
The one that I can't wait for it to be true if it ever happens.
But if you say, like, I swear we're outside and machine detects it
and then gives you like a citation, that's the shit we're like.
Well, we did it, guys.
That's the that's the verbal morality statute right there.
It is now OK to kill ourselves because there is no hope left for the world.
Guys, it's gone too far. I'm sorry.
I'm going to take it for a murder.
Oxick brood unite.
Hello, all my n words.
I actually watched that opening.
It was when we were looking at the cats.
That was one of the best openings ever because it was so kind and neutral.
Do we have cats now?
No, good.
I haven't watched again.
Oh, God, about jumping the gun rag is.
I didn't I didn't say we needed to.
I was just asking about them.
I was inquiring to the status of the cat.
I just have to ask about them.
Aren't we good enough for you?
Oh, got a feral wolf here, a guy in a mask and a guy who's drunk.
What what more do you need?
I'm working on the drunk part.
I was going to say I have alcoholism.
Well, I haven't done like any kind of
in a fap under the influence.
Has that ever even happened?
Have we done that? I can't remember.
Under the if you count last Sunday's stream with you and me.
I don't think we do count that.
You know, well, there's no counting our subjective opinion.
If I left for dead, yeah, that's going to happen eventually.
Um, yeah, hello, everyone.
That's good.
Long enough to say, like, welcome to the FAP number four and oh,
well, if you still push in the hole, we should do a 24 hour thing at 50.
Yeah, why 24 hour show at episode 50.
Let's do it.
Because you said that now everyone else going to say
that there's going to be a post on the subreddit and discord.
It's like they promised it.
They promised.
I have to say it publicly.
And how would that be formatted?
Would it be would it be part one, two, three, four, five?
Would it be because it splits up into eight hours.
You get cut off after a while, don't you?
Yeah, seven, four, eight hours.
It would probably be seven hours a piece.
And then the last one only needs to be three hours.
Right. So.
Yeah, let's do it.
24 hour show, episode 50.
And then people will be like, do a 48 hour one for the hundred.
I'll be like, no, I will not let someone who is sleeping on the street.
Do a week long one for the episode thousand, I guess.
The thing along the FAP is like we did half a 24 hour naturally ones.
Either way, we're welcoming a wonderful guest today.
He's called Rags. Hello.
Hello. Hi, everybody.
I'm glad to be back here in the FAP studios once again
to cover videos and look at memes and do the tisms.
Always glad to be requested.
And then the reoccurring hosts, Wolf and Critical Drinker.
How do you do, says it's great, although I'm not really keen
on having rags here is like our worst guess by far.
Why don't you go and stuff a pizza down your pie hole?
Oh, yeah, I'll have you know I did that before we came on.
That doesn't really. Thanks.
Thanks for having me on your show.
I'm going to keep talking until I pass out in a pool of my own vomit.
So we'll see how that goes.
I'm going to fall on your side.
Saying hello to you all for the same time.
So I was like, well, I've just invited you guys to talk at the same time.
Good job. I'm very good.
I should have made my turn.
No, no, I should have made my turn.
It could have been anyone's turn.
In fact, Wolf should offer you guest rights.
Wolf, what the fuck? You watch Game of Thrones.
You should know about that.
Guest rights.
I'm pretty sure we had a whole episode about guest rights
where a bunch of people die violently.
We're not having a wedding here, Wolf.
How do you know?
Oh, my God. Is this rags?
Well, if you what's happening here?
We're not we're not getting married and asking for it.
It's got to happen eventually. What?
You know what? No, I don't.
You'll say here now.
All right.
Oh, I'm what's that?
Previously on Efap.
You're fired. You're fired.
No one's going to get that joke, God damn it.
I don't even I don't even want to explain it
because it's just too funny.
Someone just ask us enough about it and one of you will explain it
and then you'll be really disappointed by the explanation.
Like, oh.
Anyway, I feel like I've just walked into a whole bunch of personal history here.
You fucking when you start seeing some of these memes, you're going to be like,
OK, is this like you guys just collectively high and we'll be like, no,
this is all based in reality.
This all makes a lot of sense. 100 percent high on objectivity.
Yeah. So I don't really know what we could.
We could talk about like literally anything because you kept track
of a lot of properties that we have, too.
For example, did you did you cover it all?
That that deleted scene from Captain Marvel Drinker?
The the one where she abuses that poor man.
The door, the dawn.
Yeah. No, I didn't make a video about it because everyone else
to talk about it. Yeah.
I was just like, you know what?
I did my review of Captain Marvel and then I was just done with it.
I don't want to talk about that movie anymore or anything to do with it.
But I've yeah, I've seen that scene and it's awful.
If I made it into the movie, man, that would have changed the conversation again.
I would love Brie Larson to try to defend it.
I wonder what she'd say.
I have this weird suspicion that she pushed for that scene to be in.
Like she almost like, you know, she insisted on doing it.
And they're like, I don't think this is a good idea,
but we'll shoot it anyway just to appease her and deal with it in editing.
Imagine you have like it just keeps getting elevated.
So it's like, oh, those asshole guys will ask you and hit on you
when you're clearly not interested.
It's like we should have it so that like you can maybe have him fall over
like he slips on something and he just looks stupid.
No, no, no, she was she originally that they had to ask her.
You mean like hit on you as in like smack you physically like
like assault you?
It's like, no, no, no, no, like flirt.
Yeah, just just look suggestively at her and say something.
I mean, I'm assuming everybody on set was insane outside of the editor in post.
But the some of the cameramen were probably just there for the paycheck.
But they keep like trying this assault to one up each other.
And so they're like, yeah, he falls over.
It's like, no, you can you can hit him, push him over, hits him.
It's like electrocute him, kill him.
And there's almost like they all look at each other like, no, we can't kill him.
Maybe we should, though, and kill.
You can't just kill men, Brie.
Too bad that so many guests doesn't even make sense.
Well, you can't just kill white men.
Ghost SS said in chat, too bad that so many guests that molar ignores chat.
Don't want to make sense of that.
No, I OK.
Well, we'll we'll we'll say something.
If you want us to pay attention to the chat, then we tend to reach out.
Yeah, I'm assuming that I always have my eye on the chat.
People have questions for the critical drinker.
We could we could do that for a bit.
We did that with the R. It could be fun.
Yeah, you guys can answer the questions to address to me.
Yeah, asking questions, we'll answer them.
That'll be exactly what I want.
I have a midget Skittle.
It's like it's like six times smaller than all the other Skittles in the bag.
What the fuck? Wow.
You might want to try that.
I bet that's your idea of a diet.
I don't even want to fucking eat it.
Yeah, it is my idea of a diet.
Instead of eating pizza and drinking Dr.
Pepper, I'm now eating Skittles already had the pizza.
I have Skittles, Pepsi and pizza.
Is it partially attached to another Skittle like Quattel from?
No, I'm going to take a picture of it and show you, because this is the fucking
can't wait to get all.
OK, if before you cut the pizza, is it one slice of pizza?
I don't cut the pizza.
The people that the store cut the pizza and I buy it from the store cut.
I'm going to slice off something if it was never taken from something else.
I don't even want to like eat this Skittle because it's like it's special.
There we go. Is it is it weirdly discovered?
Oh, I've pushed it in the wrong chat.
Oh, look, that's a good start.
Critical Drinko, what are your thoughts on Eric Taxon?
What the fuck?
Wait, wait, this actually this Skittle picture doesn't really work
because we don't have a scale.
We made you have really tiny fingers.
OK, I will show you a normal size Skittle then.
No, could you?
I'll take a picture from the exact normal size Skittle.
Well, how do we know that the normal size Skittle is normal sized?
Because I'm telling you it's normal sized.
I don't think that's good enough.
Can you trust this wolf guy or something?
There we go.
Normal size Skittle.
We're waiting with bated breath on this one. Exactly.
And in fairness, you can see the discourse behind it with us all in it.
So, yeah, this is we can verify this unless he did.
You know, you said it was like Ted type smaller.
Now you're just a straight up liar.
How do we know that's not the same Skittle?
Just larger, lighter with an S on it?
What the fuck, Rags?
It's not the same.
And you know, what's really one advantage is one advantage that Skittles
has over M&M's is that they face M&M has an M on it.
But if you turn it upside down, it's a whoo.
But with the Skittle, regardless of whether or not it's face up
or upside down, it's still.
Someone was like that's intelligent design right there.
And times 10 times, God love Skittles.
I'm calling lies on this.
Anyway, yeah, we got a chat wants to know about Critical
Drinker and his opinions concerning orphans.
Oh, no orphans.
I strongly object to the existence of them.
Well, you're in good company.
Just right.
I think it's fine.
We got to ask him the episode nine question has to be done.
So with how well written every Star Wars film has been up to this point,
which you think of all the characters in episode nine will be the most
inconsistent and the disqualifications, the ones you cannot pick are Kylo Ren,
because that's the obvious choice, because he's never consistent.
Palpatine, because he's not even supposed to be in the fucking film.
You didn't know that was going to happen when we made this bet.
So it's just not fair.
And same goes for Lando, which we probably should have remembered.
But probably you get to choose anybody.
Who do you think will be the most inconsistent of all of them?
I'm going to say Poe, to be honest, because he was all over
the fucking place in the Last Jedi and.
Yeah, I see them trying to like reset him to some extent in this one
and give him some kind of purpose, and it's clearly not going to work with the whole,
you know, you're just a dumb fucking fly boy.
And that's all, you know.
So yeah, I think I think Poe is going to be the most inconsistent one this time around.
What do you reckon they'll do with him?
They'll give him a love interest and try and tame him
or try and give him some kind of grounding with it.
I don't know who they'll give him.
They might.
Let's do it, because they they need their representation
and they haven't got it so far.
Poe X Finn, we can call it pin.
I like that a lot of people in chat have already know it's like,
what's with the title?
Why does it say Doom of Turtle looks terrible?
Why have you put that there?
And I'm like, that's not my video.
It's someone else's look at it.
It's OK, guys, I'm sorry.
Everyone, everyone's very quick to assume that it might be something we're saying.
No, no, no.
I'm pretty sure all four of us really like the way it looks.
It's in quotes.
I thought the quotes would help it.
You know, people are very concerned and antsy.
We're getting to it.
You know, give us a few hours.
It'll get there.
In the meantime, you know, we what was what?
What do you what do you what do you plan on doing with your channel drink?
What's what's what's next up for you?
What are you going to be destroying?
It's too many is not out yet, you know.
Yeah, I've got to take my time.
I've got a sneak in suspicion and sorry, suspicion, but
fishermen that's suspicious.
I shouldn't have had so many drinks before I did this.
Yeah, I've got this weird suspicion that Spider-Man Far From Home
is going to be a bit shit.
And if it is, I'm going to go in on it hard because I'm at that point
with the MCU where I don't really care about it anymore.
It feels a bit pointless.
Like I saw in game, it was fine.
It wrapped things up mostly.
And now it just feels like they're spinning their wheels.
What did you say of homecoming?
It was fine.
The plot was a bit weak.
It felt a bit small.
I think Tom Holland's a really good Spider-Man.
So give him his dues there.
I fucking hate the actress that they got to play.
What is it?
MG?
Oh, is it Zendaya?
Yeah, so on.
Well, I know she's not the actress, but like the actual character,
the way they've written her, she's just this really snarky, annoying,
insufferable asshole that kind of reminds me of Shuri
from from Black Panther.
I don't know why.
Michael Keaton was amazing in it.
Give him his dues.
Yeah, so it was a movie that it kind of relied on the charm
and the charisma of a lot of its actors rather than being a particularly good story.
I thought it was a good story.
I thought it was a good story, too.
Well, I'm in the minority here on this one, then.
Well, I don't know about that because a lot of people seem to think
that homecoming was pretty bad.
I always felt like because I actually have told people this before,
but when I originally watched it with a friend of mine, we went in like,
Oh, this is going to be bad.
We've heard a lot of bad things and good to get it out of the way
so that we actually follow the continuity of the MCU.
We were pleasantly surprised and we didn't really get why
everybody was hating on it because a lot of people were
because like the people over at the high council,
so will cause bullshits and geeks and gamers, they really don't like it.
And we're yet to figure out exactly why,
but I think a lot of people in in the chat don't like it as well.
Homecoming is a divisive film, from what I understand.
I don't really know, but I thought it was.
Yes, you got Homecoming is a bad Spider-Man movie.
I was like, why, though?
I mean, it's a million times better than the amazing Spider-Man movies.
So, yeah, like.
It's definitely a step up from them.
It's just, I don't know,
if the story just felt really small,
they liked about it, though.
Right. I like that it was a story if it's solid and it makes sense
and it all fits together.
It was just cool to have a small scale superhero storyline
that wasn't end of the world.
Yeah, I think the galaxy is going to turn into a popsicle stick.
Yeah, there was there was no sky beam in this one, which I guess was a plus.
Yes, Marvel does a lot of those.
Everyone does a lot of those, didn't.
Was it Man of Steel to start the sky beams?
Who started the sky beams?
I think I don't.
I don't know, actually.
I can think of several movies that have the sky beam,
but I don't know which one started the trend.
Yeah, Suicide Squad of the sky beam.
Pretty sure.
Did you ever see that?
Terrible skyline movie.
Oh, no.
That was a bad movie.
I'm pretty sure it had a sky beam.
Yeah. Oh, yeah.
Avengers has a sky beam sort of.
Did Suicide Squad have like some kind of variation of it where the Enchantress
did like a really shit dance and that started like all kinds of weird
gravitational waves just knocking shit over, like across the world.
Yeah, they seem to recall something like that.
They definitely had a sky beam in Suicide Squad.
I think one of the cliche ones, but Justice League definitely didn't
because it was just like the cubes smashing together and then something happened.
I don't think Independence Day counts, Chad.
Wait, I'm thinking of the when they say sky beam,
they mean like the ones where they just blow the shit up, right?
No, I'm thinking of something else in the sky.
And it's like this warning thing, like, oh, no.
OK, I haven't seen it in a while.
Must have forgot about it.
It's like kind of like the one from Venus.
What is what?
Oh, yeah. Where the rings had one, too.
Yeah, Lord of the Rings had a sky beam.
Yeah, I mean, I have I have hopes,
some hopes for the MCU to maybe not all be bad now.
But, you know, not looking forward to Captain Marvel turning up.
And what was the recent thing that she's she's already set to be in five movies?
Not including like she's going to pop up all over the place.
It's going to be like, oh, oh, it's like the most what can you do with her, though?
Like if she pops up into any movie, surely she's just going to be able
to solve everything in like five minutes.
It'd be like having Superman into people's movies.
If she ends up being a mentor to
to like Spider-Man or some other character, I'm going to be like,
I cannot take you seriously.
Like, she's like, you know, she life isn't about revenge.
Something you'd be like, please, no, she can sit down with Spider-Man
and explain, like, if someone touches your newspaper, it's OK to rob them.
And she convinces Spider-Man to be evil.
If someone winks at you, you can blast them with webs.
Yeah.
I am. I would love it
if if Captain Marvel turns out to be the next Thanos.
Oh, yeah, I think we don't like that, but it actually morphs into the next villain.
I don't think that's going to happen.
I want it to happen.
But they're never going to do that.
They don't have the guts to do it.
They're awful people. I mean, they're wonderful people.
But the people who make you just take women, don't you mower?
I mean, only most of them.
He's not all of them.
I like porn.
Yeah.
That counts for something that all feminists like.
What else is Marvel doing outside of Far From Home that we know about?
There's another Guardians movie coming out, but I mean, sooner than that.
Again, Doctor Strange 2, is that a thing yet?
You guys are going to be hyped for that.
I fell asleep when I watched Doctor Strange the first time around.
Like, I passed out for a good 20 minutes in the cinema.
It was Rags.
Is it me, you, Fringy and Fortia that watched that relatively recently?
Which one?
Doctor Strange.
Yeah, somewhat, somewhat recently.
And we were like, hey, this is pretty good.
They were like, oh, God, it got really bad really quick.
The the it probably had I think objectively,
it probably had maybe the second worst plot after Captain Marvel.
Yeah. And if you were like, what?
It would be like, no, seriously.
No, like, really actually watch it and pay attention to the plot.
It makes no sense.
Everything falls apart really quickly as soon as the time thing gets involved.
But I like Doctor Strange as a character,
and he's got some good lines and I don't hate the movie.
And the fights were cool.
So I'm down for another one.
Do I want to see another one?
The fucking ghost fight, though, the ghost fight was.
That shit.
Ghost hunters on today's episode of because the premise was like Freaky was like,
no, Doc Strange is good.
And I was like, it's kind of bad.
And then we watched it.
I remember thinking to myself, like, no matter how good beginning parts are,
when we get to the ghost fight, I know that everything falls apart in the ghost fight.
And yeah, it was even worse than I remember.
Fucking ghost fight is that pretty.
But you know, what was cool is the Doctor Strange is very upset
when he finds out he's killed anyone.
Doesn't like killing people.
It's a big deal for him, not only a surgeon,
but just a human being who hasn't killed people.
So that's neat.
He's the he's the anti Brie Larson.
Yeah, she doesn't really sure how many people are dead
because of Captain Marvel, like thousands.
She's got a higher kill power than like anyone.
Yeah. And like she doesn't care.
She just gives a good a little woo hoo like she said in the great old time.
Murder. Yeah, you're becoming a mass murderer right now.
And a lot of these people aren't even bad necessarily.
They've just been told to like attack you.
He's a special girl, and I can't wait for that.
You guys were on my side yesterday, but fuck you.
You're all right.
Where where do you guys see Captain Marvel going as a character?
Like, where can they possibly take her from here?
I'm expecting the second movie will involve either
you're getting depowered to becoming evil or here.
Maybe it's something more powerful than her.
She has to fight, which would be insane to think about.
But yeah, maybe that maybe
somebody on another planet and then say
magic blue stone powered space engine machine,
and then they have to blow it up.
And then that means that someone else gets Captain Marvel powers.
And so it's two Captain Marvels just punching each other for eternity.
Do you think Jude Law is going to have another crack at her?
Because like he was going to come back, right?
Must have left him alive for a reason.
Yeah, he can be the new Loki.
This he wouldn't look a bad Loki.
He looks like kind of a Loki type.
Well, the important thing is that she didn't have anything.
She needed to prove to him.
So she just kind of knocked him out and then threw him away.
And we can we can take a lot from that.
Then then she threw his spaceship into space.
She blasted it and it somehow works now because of that,
because it was like broken, which is weird, because normally
every other point in this movie, when she's blasted stuff,
it is destroyed things to even establish that she has to heal things.
This is what I do.
This is what I do when my car won't start.
Like, I just I just blast it with something and it just kicks into life.
It's great. Like, don't you guys do that?
Well, yesterday, when we were watching a video together,
I was I was saying to Mahler and Jay, I said, there's as far as we know,
there's nothing she can't do.
Yeah, pretty much.
And the fact that she's going to need the Avengers.
It's like, yeah.
I think I have to have a need to rush films
where she actually has a relationship with anybody in the current MCU that are alive.
Even even like Thor, you know, the most powerful Avenger, he could be hurt.
You know, if if Thanos was to punch him in the face,
it would knock him through a fucking wall.
Yeah. But then he hits, you know, he hits Captain Marvel
and it does absolutely nothing.
And she doesn't even move.
Yeah. And then people go, you did with the power stone.
It's like, guys, guys.
It when he has literally the power of the universe, he can beat her.
That's not that's not a thing that we should be like.
Oh, it's not a fair comparison.
Convenience her.
Yeah, he could inconvenience her if she was fine still.
We're all very worried about where the MCU is.
This is like very close to disaster.
It's just if they rely too much on this character, they're fucked
because no one no one's going to be interested.
You know, no one's going to care.
Like if you can give her some massive flaw, then fair enough.
But they've given her nothing so far.
She's probably not even a massive flaw.
Would you give her a massive?
I give her no, I wouldn't even give her a massive.
Like have you seen Brie Larson?
She's not ugly.
I don't think she's ugly, but she's she's not ugly, but she's not beautiful.
She's not like starling your hands and beautiful.
She's perfectly fuckable.
But what was that comment?
That it was a coyote who who said the only I was on vacation.
I was I was reading the discord.
Sorry, God Smith, Ram discord.
And he was saying stuff about how we don't give Brie Larson.
We don't give ugly women a fair chance.
I guess no one else remembers that.
All right. I'm not following.
What is your point?
I was asking you a question.
What was the question?
We give Brie Larson a fair chance.
That exchange that was that took place that we had.
What? You know, never mind. It's fine.
Don't worry about it.
OK. So anyway, yeah, I think that she's ugly on the inside would be how.
And when you're ugly on the inside, it makes it very hard to be attractive.
But I still don't think that she's ugly or anything.
She's nowhere near as beautiful as the dawn.
No. Well, you can't be more beautiful than perfection.
Yeah, is you're talking about like the sequel to Jesus.
You can't just compare that to somebody else.
Jesus, part two.
You know, when when the hound says that's how you've always looked
on the inside or whatever to cook again when he knocks the helmet off.
That's what the inside of Brie Larson looks like on the mountain.
What's this? What's this art that you guys have?
Hmm. What?
Yeah, the one that Wolf is using.
Oh, you know, that's a good that's a good segue into.
We've got 56 images to look at.
Oh, we're going to be here while we may as well start.
I'm going to go ahead and in advance apologize for the first one.
This is I didn't believe this was a thing, right?
I can assure you it is.
Someone sent me this and they were like, this is from his new
his newest video at the time.
Winter reviews adopting a different style.
He hasn't kept it.
Right. And I guess he thought it was funny.
But again, I apologize.
Oh, oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Quinton, that's like Christ.
That is like a character creation screen when you're like this fuck
and you just set everything to maximum.
No, but what this like character randomizer and oblivion.
This is more like in mass effect when the people like intentionally tried
to make the ugliest character they could ever can see. Yeah.
Yeah, what I saw is, like I said, I was like, I was like, is this a photo shot?
Like, why would anyone do this to them?
Is this actually? Oh, it's in a video.
So from what I saw, he shaves parts of his beard off throughout the video
until he gets to this stage and then he shaves it all except the handlebars.
No. Oh, my goodness.
So like normally he's got like a full on beard going on.
I think so. Yeah.
He's got a compensation beard. Yes.
See, yeah.
Like when I've spoken to women about beards before, they're always like,
oh, yeah, we like them because we always assume there's a handsome face underneath.
But that is an incorrect assumption, my friend.
So, yeah, that sorry about that.
Oh, geez. I showed rag this already.
Rag is this, but this is something that we ordered to have happen.
And one did it quickly.
Yeah, yeah. Perfectly balanced.
It's not like this should be.
There are times when the two ends of the political spectrum
can agree on something, not that we actually have Riley Dennis
confirming that a vision is trans, but it doesn't look something that would be said.
Yeah. I want no bullshit's sake on this one.
We got it, though. Right.
There's a suspicious amount of transgenders in this picture and giant midgets.
Like me out of a coma, but I don't know if you guys saw these,
but this is quite funny.
This is a selection of four photos.
This is the website, massive angle.
Love is long, love is objective, love is here.
We got we got a first match.
Perfect. That's good.
Yeah. And then of course, so happy.
Oh, it's beautiful.
Someone needs to make this website unironically.
Olives are weird, grapes, fists are connected, water isn't wet,
pizza makes you fat, wolf, a sister.
I really like that.
This is a good one.
That is really funny.
I think this is a game play that made this screenshot.
But I do see a fappy turtle.
Yeah. Oh, that's good.
This is the other one, the doom one before.
But you got this all updated in this one.
You can go up Dan and Dave, I assume.
Yeah, both of them are in there legally.
Well, I love how the act says it's not made for you.
Yeah, that's pretty lasted, right?
I think so. Oh, yeah.
And then Matt in the background.
All the people are here.
I think I think whatever someone uses a Quinton shot,
now they need to use the specific one.
And then, you know, we always have different degrees of art here.
Can't go wrong with the comic.
What's this is not long for this world?
It's resurrection by and I think that's Krovik.
I can't. Oh, this is not long for this world.
I'm in a coma, I guess.
A real shame. Oh, wait, it's not even me.
It's just some guy, I think.
But someone who watches the FAP and they said,
real shame.
If app is live and you'll miss it, they got tonaled on and it resurrected.
That would be the ultimate.
If I'm getting to know this one, I'm sure me and Wolf will get.
Hey, Rags, have you got a switch yet?
I don't have a switch.
Well, I yourself, you're probably you're probably going to get one pretty soon.
Yeah. Well, you know, anything about this all happened.
Does he know anything about the switches?
I can't remember if Rags actually made a way.
Rags, you're familiar with our our donator, James Moore.
Yeah, he bought me and Mahler a switch and he plans on doing the same for you as well.
No, shit, really.
Like I own a switch now because this dude bought it for me.
As do I. Oh, my God.
Does he want you to play anything in particular?
He just wants you to do it.
I think it literally just came from
I was interested in some of the switch games from this E3.
And he was like, I'll buy you a switch.
And I was like, OK.
And then he did it.
Did he ask for anything in return or no?
And he'd like to switch.
I was like, man, I got to figure out what games I'm going to get.
And he's like, I can get you a couple of games.
And I'm like, James, how much money do you have?
Man, that's that's kind of wild.
It's so that we're obligated to get free on since he already has a switch.
And now we're going to play like Super Smash Bros or something for me.
Yeah, I'd like to play Smash and some of the games that come out for it.
Absolutely. Well, prepare yourself.
James has already done it for two of us.
Oh, man, that's crazy.
This is the guy who we covered who said that
everything makes sense and gave a third season date.
It all fits. Oh, oh, oh, oh.
I love that, baby.
Uh, Alex's math of Sauron
covering news, the fact community.
GFA Part three is the is delayed even more.
I can't remember if this was made in relation to our podcast or not,
but it's still cool anyway.
I like it. So.
Uh, fuck.
The Iron Wheelchair, Bran the Broken.
I didn't hear that shall mount the world.
How did you feel about Bran being the king of everything?
Unearned, like a guy who's warged off his tits most of the time.
I can see it happening in the books, but there was no development for him
after like the first episode of the entire series to it.
So fucking casually.
It's just like a brother for me.
It makes as much sense as Bron being master of coin.
That doesn't make any sense at all.
It's painful.
The whole thing was painful.
It's all pain.
Here's a little tonal's crime.
The artificial barriers of blockage.
What a hero.
A few.
The rendition of I'm guessing daddled.
And then this this was on my Twitter, and I was just like,
I guess I got to throw it in with the tonal ones.
Not sure what made it.
It's beautiful.
This was like a summary of the memes of the one with Alex is like
doing insane.
It looks like Keanu Reeves, my.
It's kind of where's Ray, you know, as you think you do.
My master sour on the great bids the not tip the wait staff.
Wait, what?
There was there was a there was a back and forth
about whether or not you should tip people and stuff.
This was awesome.
Yeah, I was in the camp where I'm like, this is obvious.
Tip the waiter and tip the driver.
And I was talking to a British man who doesn't understand basic things.
I fucking hate tipping people like I resent it on a fundamental level.
We don't do that over here.
So every time I come to the States and I'm expected to like tip someone
for opening a bottle of beer for me in a bar, like what have you even done?
You have to do more than that.
It's a cultural difference.
It's fine.
We do tip people over here.
Plus, we also make significantly less money.
So like waiters here make two bucks an hour.
They can, yeah.
Obviously, depends on the story you're going to, but, you know.
Oh, no, toxic weird ink rags is is is now it can take out any person.
And there's the follow up one.
This is a this is a video about a video about you getting bald power.
There's a couple of people, people are amused by it.
But what the fuck?
After I said, I like that you're just saying bark in the first picture.
Barely, that's my quote.
So this is a.
Go like outfit as Maud Rags, and then there's a description.
Well, you feel a lot of thought into this shit.
I know, right?
A points to the eyes, I think, because he has such immense power.
Now Rags no longer needs glasses to hide his eyes as they are
filled with energy, is it or something with pure energy?
They flood with energy.
Be refers to after defeating Wolf, Rags stole his pelts and wore it for himself
on not only serving as fuck.
He's skinned to be alive and wore it.
No, I skinned you dead.
You've been defeated.
Not only serving as intimidation, but looking stylish at the same time.
Plus, it fitted the love around Rags is next, so it also does that.
Oh, my God, I just I need to bring attention to James Moore.
He said your next Rags.
I'll do you DM you on Thursday using Discord.
Then I'll move over to the Great British podcast so we can get
the effect versus eventually he's going to give all of them switches to.
Could you imagine if we set up the three of us versus the three of them?
So you want to stand how absolutely insane James Moore is as a person.
Are you a millionaire?
I'm pretty sure he's Elon Musk.
You're a rich, dead uncle. Die.
Well, all dead uncles died, but dead, like the dead.
Yes. Maybe he has like that.
That wish upon box and he just wishes for like all the money in the world
and it kills his grandpa or something.
I think he's the real producer.
I mean, yeah, Jay's supposed to be a producer.
What the fuck has he ever bought for us?
He's a manager, not a producer.
Yeah. No, I thought he was the producer.
He's the manager.
He's the manager.
All right. So I guess James Moore is the producer now.
Yeah. Yeah.
Oh, yeah.
He's that producer who's James Moore.
Pointing to see it says with great pride rags adorned
the pores of wolves pelt with his badge displaying his status as a moderator.
He really pilfered wolf.
I was surprised.
And then D well, he has a big dick, so he would obviously want to
brag about his assets.
Man, I got a big dick.
Oh, this is funny.
Memes. I don't know.
Let's go faster.
Objectivity is in the mirror.
Objectivity in the mirror is closer than it is.
Oh, that's from Jurassic Park again.
And then so just so everyone knows,
got to make sure we put it on here.
Captain Marvel is
you did come back to me in the film, touching his notebook.
He committed assault and battery upon Stanley in the film.
And then now we just got like loads of don memes.
I ordered this to a section.
This was legal, legal.
She's McQueen.
And then I really love this one.
Legally, we'll go explaining why the don actually committed battery and assault.
Literally everyone.
Then we got the awesome
you draw this.
This came like right after we'd finished the episode.
So I'm going to show it, but we do.
He's got a cast on his hand.
Representing God, but yeah.
Justice.
I mean, I'd watch the TV show. Great.
Watch legal, legal justice.
They'll be like, even like the letters, the justice for Don letters,
they're white at the top and yellowy at the bottom.
But wearing her outfit, proud of yourself.
She's like, what do I do wrong?
You monster.
This is all for like the time between the last episode
of this episode as well.
Most of this is like collecting these things like a flood of it.
Look at this shit.
John is John is good.
Is done is good.
I felt the need to send me that on Twitter is good.
Donny Turtle, I would buy that game.
And, you know, this is obviously a picture from an event that took
Oh, my God, it's beautiful.
The Don and they.
It's not personal.
Don 316 for the Don so loved the world that he gave his only begotten
motorcycle that whoever smiles upon him shall not perish,
but have directions at the right.
I like that. That's really good.
That's great.
I can start daddled like tonaled.
The fans of the old tonals, one of them, the don man,
that's a buddy cop movie happening.
To be like 21 Jump Street, but with tonaled in the don instead.
Oh, my God.
Now this Brie Larson.
And legally all fucked up, he shows the wrong side.
We've seen this comic originally, they just put Don's face on it.
It still makes sense. Yeah, yeah.
I got stolen recently, was pretty bummed about it,
but I think whoever stole it was probably more happy to get it
than I am said to lose it.
Like the comic, the total happiness in the world increased.
So whatever.
This is someone's suggestion for a Don.
I stand with the Don T shirt.
Oh, God, I would wear that.
I would wear it.
Totally go on the back.
There's a pink vision for the ladies out there.
And of course, a blue vision for the other ladies slash guys out.
You know, anyone can choose any color guys, whatever you identify as.
Yeah. And then there's this one, which is absolutely insane.
Like a stained glass window of the dog.
Don't father doesn't see these are vaginas.
This is absolutely insane. Wow.
The whole.
The frog in the bottom, right?
There you go. Yeah, the left is regs.
Top right is mauler. Bottom left is me.
And is that that's frogled at the bottom?
Yeah. And the cosmic chicken.
Where's the cosmic chicken at?
It's it below. It's untold.
Oh, that's the chicken.
The detail and this isn't even I think there's a way better
version of this one. I've got a little bit of Christ.
Yeah, this is intense.
It's a lot of detail here as well as just the Don.
Father doesn't see me serve is the truth.
Another fucking awesome piece of artwork.
That is amazing.
It's when people put real effort into it that you appreciate it.
That's good. Wow, that's crazy.
The amount of work people put into these drawings
just because we were shooting the shit
and talked about how Don is actually a sympathetic character.
Yeah, I think the is the idea here that I'm the I'm the angel,
you're the devil or vice versa, or we both just fill it out.
I don't even know.
It seems like everybody's got a halo around their head in some way.
I would think I'm the devil.
Got the robes.
You know, that was generally the style in a lot of like middle A jars
that halos would always be behind the person.
So in Pensacones, they're obviously evil.
Rags just chilling in his in his hands, because you know what?
The Don takes care of puppies.
Such a good boy.
Oh, yeah.
Amazing artwork is really good.
I can't remember if I showed this one before or not,
but I just find it amusing.
So do it again.
Slice it, brother.
I'm sure I have. I just love it.
I love your face. It's so good.
Like I'm considered.
I'm like, you need to just take it out.
Do it.
Oh, I think you guys will like this one.
I think it's adorable.
Save that, save it, save it.
Then there's this one.
What to say, really?
Oh, don't worry, buddy.
Someday you could be long, too.
Darn. Oh, God.
Long going. Jesus Christ.
What the fuck?
Actually terrifying.
Long going.
Long going.
And there's the this this story came from me saying that my dad thought
that a guy who played
Acrobat's dad looked like Keanu Reeves, I guess.
Keanu Reeves, Aquamans, Dan.
Read some of the stuff on the other side of the cup.
I felt like that the the mauler dad is wearing a wife beater.
Little slippers.
The.
Ballmer.
Oh, boy.
Rhino milk, what?
You're going to farm rhinos.
Jay, why are you doing this instead of watching Lord of the Grains?
There's no reason not to farm rhinos because they produce milk.
It feels like the direct quote from the video.
I know does not look happy about it.
One of the OG memes.
Then a representation of maybe why my second channel is called.
Still got the gas mask on.
Absolutely.
This is a really cool piece of artwork from a fan, I guess,
that I like the new.
Cool. This looks like something out of 40K.
Yeah.
It I'm assuming it's original.
If it's not less, you know, just people tricking me on Twitter, which they can do.
We need to go to trick once with the milking.
Wasn't there a wolf?
You remember someone milking a rhino in like a really?
Oh, yeah. The one that was like ridiculously well detailed.
But it turns out it's just some like it's just some random Russian picture
that somebody found and was accidentally misinterpreted as fan art.
Yeah, you never know.
I think it's actually on the website, too.
But I'm not people.
It's a lot of people said is the 40K stalker betro ex-cob.
It's like, yeah, it could be any of them.
Yeah.
Stay my name.
They don't like to say your name.
I mean, being long man is good enough.
Like it's like summoning me.
Pretty cool. See the future.
Medea.
Again, I feel like drinking.
You have a fucking clue what the hell is happening in the majority of.
Yeah, I'm just cruising on this one, man.
I really should have watched more e-faps before I started this.
You wouldn't be able to.
You'd have to watch.
I don't even know what the couch is up to right now, but it's really hard.
I think it's like nine days almost.
Yeah, check understand every one of these.
I love how different all the art styles are for like every one of these.
That's eight days, 21 hours, 34 minutes.
Oh, zero seconds.
Stradimire art right on point.
Very good.
Oh, yeah, this one.
So you guys know about the me and the boys meme, right?
Yes. Yeah.
I'm watching it.
Don't worry about the speed.
Some of these, I just want to leave on the screen for a while.
Let's just enjoy the video.
That is some fine memory.
And then, yeah, OK, so this is the one that Wolf actually took a
a PFP from, because holy fuck, is it amazing?
It's really good. Wow.
Like this one is one I stayed at for a while.
Look at this shit.
It was so good.
I was like, I got to use that as my PFP.
Wow, that's really good.
You get the dawn back there.
Game of Thrones.
The Game of Thrones.
Star Wars pictures are slashed.
Yeah, it's got the claws through it.
Man, that's really good.
And I like the the look of both Wolf and Rags is
sort of the demeanor they both have.
Yeah, that is really cool.
Ridiculous.
Actually, if there's a way that this person could DM me on Discord,
the original for this, the original file, that would be incredible.
There you go.
If you I'm assuming they watch the show,
because why would they have spent this much effort otherwise?
Do you want to get the rags when isolated, is it?
Or do you want to do?
Yeah, that's a part of it, but I also went like legit the original.
Oh, yeah, this is the thing.
The one I've got is obviously one.
But yeah, actually, I'd be interested in that, too, just to save it.
Holy fuck. Yeah.
Although this is a bail in peace.
Oh, boy.
How about us? How about a smile?
Stay low, the birds.
I like that the mist is just clearing around him.
Oh, the dawn.
And the perfect one to end on was me complaining at one point.
But it's really hard to keep track of every single
way he holds all these things.
You need to look at women, rags, massive Spider-Man's coming out.
The orphan question, Medea.
Oh, God, there's Goliath.
He's got three eyes.
I like that Joe's fans have essentially been stabbed as a massive.
That's one thing that's great about the Goliath meme is that
that's not even on a fat.
That's not an fat meme.
It will be an exotic meme that was imported.
It was that good of a meme.
It got imported. It was so good.
It transcended.
They'll know about it all one day.
Yeah, that's it for the pictures end of this, which took fucking million years.
I haven't got Twitter open right now.
Is that really 56?
Yes. It seemed like 56.
Oh, no, don't don't let it end.
I want this to go on forever.
So if you'll kindly join the good old watch together,
we've got one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten,
eleven of thirteen videos.
Look, most of them are one minute or so.
So it'll be fine.
But the wonderful meme portion of have we used to watch together before drinker?
No, I haven't.
So hopefully I don't fuck it up right now.
You have control of your own volume.
But then if you pause or play, it'll affect all of us, which is fine.
That's the point of it is that we all stay synced.
Oh, yeah, it should should be should be good fun.
I only see three names right now.
Is anyone not in here yet?
Well, I've been there.
Oh, so wait, have you clicked it?
Right. Hold on. All right.
Yeah, here I go.
You'll be able to see a panda right now.
Yeah.
And don't worry if these make no sense to you whatsoever is absolute.
Oh, God. Here we go.
And what is your plan?
Wolf is.
Hello, Chris.
They really plan to get revenge on rags and defeat the bots and the bot.
Plan to get revenge on you rags for lucky be out of the chat.
See, we have to go.
It was humiliating and frustrating.
I don't know what to do.
You must not be involved in the expert war.
All right. The bots from the last time.
I will make sure Mahler takes away your mod access.
I won't come over that.
That's all from the bots is catastrophic.
There have been tons of suicide bombings.
You are trying to answer the question.
Thank you so much.
Arabics, they will bow before the power of effect.
I will make sure that it's first time in a ship to rest.
Now, I don't get it.
This is what you have to do with that.
You freakin' reach hardware.
You will not go sit in the corner.
Think about what we've done.
You will not get sick.
Now, that garlic.
I love it.
Wolf is officially Hitler in the law, then.
I thought that was already confirmed a lot of times.
The matter of whether or not the rest of us also are.
Oh, boy.
What about this? Don't you love the Hobbit, though?
This is the worst of the three, too.
I know. Every every Hobbit movie was shit.
I thought the third one was spatially bad compared to the other two.
When when fucking Billy Connolly showed up riding a deer,
I just checked out the fucking movie.
I think he was riding a pig.
It was Threndul that was riding the deer.
Yeah, yeah.
Went in armed with a with a poke.
I'm OK with her big ass log.
Anything comes from the Hobbit movies, and it could be this.
I love the people.
They always summarize it.
The memes is TLJ defenders.
It's that simple.
And we had to look back on how we actually had now.
It's like a robot head was I remember that.
He felt thirty six.
I guess that was the robot had one.
Is that like a personal attack or something?
People call me that's fun.
I'm right over there.
We got the fuck. Oh, God, it's the same.
Just look at this image.
This is perfect.
Oh, man, that's great.
Willems fucking Ryan Johnson and just right defeated instantly.
I don't even need the original sounds or anything,
just different soundtracks.
There's going to be the theme of EFA.
Oh, that's great.
That's good.
This one is actually a Goliath one,
but we always throw the Goliath ones in, even if people don't even know.
Oh, this again, but we did we show this one before?
I couldn't remember.
Is this the one where if Rags starts whining in this one, that it will be.
Either way, it's going to be a pretty.
I'm pretty certain we've seen this one before.
Yeah, we have to watch it again.
Let's do it.
Hmm. What is this? You definitely.
I also love the fucking scared face.
The cynic snacks has for his pizza.
Oh, that's Goliath.
Oh, the animation is incredible in this.
Oh, man, some of these are.
Can you see them in the background?
That was great.
Oh, lord of the snacks, the fellowship of the stream.
Yeah, that's great.
I would have rewatched that stream.
That was the blast.
The rise of tonaled.
See, our old.
Oh, that is.
That's horrifying.
I have no fucking idea what I'm watching right now,
but even I appreciate the.
The meme value, it's through the roof.
A thousand generations live in, you know.
You hear the.
In the distance, you say.
Hello, all my.
But this is your find.
The long shot of the desert.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen.
We can install a log critique is not deep, but you can try.
Run while you have the chance.
Eric, don't make closeups of your face.
You're just you're so titanic ugly.
What the fuck? Who wrote this stupid shit?
Jack, kindly fuck you.
I guess we're the first order of this, which I don't mind, to be honest.
Wipe all the heroes. I'm good with that.
I fucking hate Trump.
Slice it, slice it, slice it.
You put the crossbow on C3.
What?
I was like lagging to me.
Always be with you.
I don't want you to be gone.
Mary Sue.
I was half expecting like a total quote in the background, but that helps to.
The rise of total.
I mean, I would watch it.
Yeah, there's a few people saying the stream is down.
It would be back up immediately.
Just refresh it. It always helps.
So this one's interesting.
I believe the way this happened was someone put out a recording of like a parody of
the Doom, you know, like the delivery of like the law by a really deep voice,
deep anything. Yeah.
They did like an eFap version of that and they put it on SoundCloud,
which I was actually going to show.
But Iman put it into like a video.
It's not exactly like usually visually done.
It's just so that I can use this video now.
But yeah, this is I haven't actually listened to all of it in the first like minutes.
So this is an interesting, different kind of art once again.
Who the subjectivity slayers testament.
In the first stream,
in the first debate,
when the TLJ was first defended.
And the food burned by the embers of adpocalypse
and the mining blistered by the bullshit of essays
that tainted beyond ascension.
He chose the path of perpetual torment
in his unbridled rage.
He found no peace
with boiling blood.
He scoured the youtubes
seeking vengeance against the dark tisms
the crown of the long man.
And the oils that tasted the bite of his critique named him
the new fab slayer.
Tempered by the fires of the essays,
his iron will remain steadfast
through the clickbait that preyed upon the naive.
For he alone was the long man bad,
unbridled predator who sought objectivity
in all quarters.
Dark and light, fire and ice
in the beginning and the end.
And he hunted the slaves of you to algorithms
with the harbor is cruelty, for he passed through the divide
as none but chisms had before.
The dark tisms
his conquest against the subjective bullshit of the essayists
his prowess was shown in his crusade
by the word of wolf bestowed upon him
terrible power and speed.
And with his might, he crushed the upset
with his ability.
The length of his videos was uncounted, the scribes of Rslashmukhi carved his name deep
in the tablets of rennet across the arms, and each battle edged terror in the hearts
of the essayists. They knew he would come as he always had, as he always willed to feast upon the
tears of his sins. For he alone could draw strength from his fallen foes and ever his power
grew, swift and unrelenting. None could stand before the horde of bad content put the efap slayer
despair spread before him like a plague striking fear into the basement dwellers, driving them
to deeper and darker pits. But from the depths of the abyss rose the great one, a champion more
massive than all who had come before the queen titan of the efap slayer and a mighty battle
was fought across many streams. The queen titan fought with the fury of the countless that had
fallen at the efap slayer's critique but there fell the queen titan and in his defeat the subjective
horde was routed. And in his terrible rancor between worlds and through time the long man
found the man he shall not be named. But in his heresy was loyal to his evil cause.
The rag adorned the efap slayer in a mighty armor wrought in the forges of the toxic
druid, impenetrable and unyielding. With facts and logic for adamant time strength
the efap slayer set to banish in all that were left unbroken by his savagery to the void.
Yet as the mighty queen titan fell and dread engulfed the armies of the intellectual gaming
community, the tomelled priests of the downward thrust laid a trap to capture the scourge of
youtube insatiable even by the vanquishing of the massive one. The long man sought praying
in the videos of the downward thrust and blinded by the slaughter of the lure to him in.
The priests brought down the artificial berry blockage upon the efap slayer and in his defeat
entombed him in the cursed tomb. The mark of the efap was burned upon his crypt,
a warning to all of youtube that the terror within must never be freed. There he lies still
and evermore in silent suffering.
The voice is pretty good. The voice was really good. It's like crazy.
It just blows my mind every time. Anyway, more memes.
What was actually doing in his sidewalk?
We'll be sure to bring you on efap at some point.
Asking people to watch a trilogy.
I'm sharing his views of modern media.
Well, now you know what I was actually doing. Truly, genuinely, maybe probably did.
This was pretty awesome, but very well, actually, I kind of a story I can relate it to.
Story time, story time, story time, legs crossed. So a couple months ago,
I was getting my tires rotated and I was reading my book and there was this old lady who looked
over and she was like, do you like Stephen King? And I was like, yeah, I do. And she was like,
my son likes Stephen King, too. And I was like, was this person Stephen King?
A hideous creature.
Well, she was an old woman, so yeah, in a way.
All the time, I was like, can you just let me read? But again, she wasn't sexually harassing me.
Can you imagine if I stood up, pointed at this old woman, and I just screamed at the top of my lungs,
then you'd hit her with the book.
Thing is, if she'd been the Dawn, would you have been perturbed by that? Or would you have been
totally receptive?
If she had been the Dawn, I would have thrown the book away and I would have leapt into his arms.
Legally in my rights to do that.
I believe so.
Let's turn our life into a real romance novel.
Keep doing your thing, Efap, and I'll make more. All right.
Well, all right. All right.
We will keep doing the thing we do.
I love this one to the point where I'm probably going to play it more than once.
All right.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen, sexual harassment.
So that's brown table.
That was like our genuine reaction when he said that what the Dawn did was sexual harassment.
So this video is great.
Hello there, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to a critique of sexual harassment.
Man, that is good.
People make this shit because of Efap.
It's good to give something back.
The Dawn.
It was a little helmet.
Your power is a weak old man.
You can't win.
Fears.
Obi Don Kenobi.
I just like this will perpetually remind people.
It's like, yes, she's like, no, she's just like, yes, she is.
This breaks the lore.
Rag is supposed to be the women.
Yeah, rags should have been there.
I'm so disappointed.
I love everything.
Right to the end, the dawn was just a legend.
Only.
It's just a right fell down on the pin.
I hope that old man got that tractor beam on a commissioner.
This could be a real short trip.
Okay.
Wonderful.
Saved by the dawn.
History of Efap, part eight.
I don't know how many of these he was going to make before running out,
but going to keep going until the podcast is over.
It wasn't made for him.
This is two different hobbit videos where she's as odd.
Perfect.
There's no way to look at it.
How about a handshake?
Please go away.
So.
Yes.
I'm a.
Kyle Ben's flying in behind them to go back to work.
Captain Marvel fans, Goliath minions, legal legal and PCs.
For a brand new video format.
I feel pissed.
Fuck Game of Thrones.
Fuck season eight.
Fuck Dan and Dan.
Oh, damn it.
Fuck that episode.
After the battle, the dawn retrieved this motorcycle from Captain Marvel's corpse.
He drove the Efap crew on a tour of his many children's hospitals.
Cancer and AIDS curing facilities.
Drug addict rehabilitation center.
It is climate change prevention complex.
They visited Becky's grave where they ate pizza and play Fallout 76.
They drove his motorcycle through brown table's birthday party while he's breathing.
Sexual harassment.
He died two days later of the big game.
I like how brown table's birthday party is like a meme too.
I want that to continue.
Oh, it's beautiful.
A wonderful story.
My birthday blow up everything in his house.
It's like a sexual harassment Carol.
She's just she just doesn't look good in these memes.
She's not looking great.
You know, no, doesn't help that.
She's got that disgusting lesbian hair.
I think this is the Koto meme.
The dawn's downfall.
There are dark places in the galaxy where few tread
ancient centers of learning, of knowledge, but I did not walk alone.
To be united by hatred is a fragile alliance at best.
But my will was not law disagreements.
Ambition about smile.
Is that like a personal attack?
And hunger for power.
She is effectively the victim of being battered by this guy.
It's the motorcycle guy who initiates force.
There are techniques within the force against which there is no defense.
Under almost any conception of morality, once someone has initiated force against you,
you are privileged enough to use the defense of force against that person.
How about a handshake?
Go.
Let him go.
The editing is really good.
Yeah, I know.
Like the way that they've masked everything else.
Stripped of my power, exiled.
I suffered indignities.
People in chat genuine like, no, John, no.
Oh,
Saint Don's Braille library for the death burned down later that day
because Don could not operate his fire truck correctly due to his broken hand.
When pressed for comment, legal legal reportedly stated that the arsonist was acting in self-defense
as one of the deaf children had made light contact with his jacket.
And that was endowed with the privilege to act with a justifiable amount of force.
Many deaf orphans died that day, not being able to hear the roaring flames approaching them
as they appreciated the choice of writing in memory of them.
Oh, my God.
Oh, man, this is the shit goes deeper than I ever could have imagined.
Don, no, get back up.
Yeah, main repository makes a lot of stuff.
I like it when they're video game ones, because it means I could just play them for it.
Yeah.
But yeah, that about does it.
That was a lot of memes.
There was a lot of a lot of talent and time and skills and an incredible amount of time.
A lot to unpack there, as you see.
We have some extremely skilled memers out there.
Beyond impressive.
There should be a college class, like a degree for memory.
I don't know what to say.
So since rag is you only have like half an hour, is it for now?
I don't know.
Either way, would you like to choose which of the three potential videos to watch?
You leave your choices are actually.
I mean, I would assume you'd want to do maternal.
Which one do I want to not be able to watch?
Do maternal looks terrible.
I'd assume you'd want to.
I think everyone's desperate to see it.
And I imagine you're interested in hearing the argument for that.
When is the next.
Probably the following Sunday.
It's not actually that long, this one.
Yeah, let's do it.
All right.
We're jumping into fucking video response shit now.
So drinker can finally actually understand what the fuck is happening.
Isn't that great?
Yay.
Don't be that way now for the rest of time.
I would imagine memes.
I don't.
I mean, sometimes me rags and wolf away.
What does this mean?
I don't remember.
But you know.
Either way, you materials coming out and everyone thinks it looks cool.
Except the person who made this video and I got sent it.
And I was like, wow.
So you guys in chat, are you ready to find out why do maternal looks terrible?
Because we sure are the prestigious YouTuber cry more.
I've never actually heard of the YouTube.
But yeah, this is a great.
Let's see what he what he's.
Sure.
This video will make me want to watch the rest of his content.
That'll be great.
It started with a very simple goal.
Make him the strongest and most powerful hero we've ever created.
Oh, as a point of the zoom.
So as you could see in these concept illustrations, he's.
Let's put an anime face on it.
That makes it funny.
He better be buff.
He's like the embodiment of rage.
He's got shit to do.
He works out.
He beats demons.
I guess this guy thinks he looks ridiculous.
And yeah, let's let's put something completely unequal into it next.
I was going to say the geez will people look way stupider than that.
Yeah, he looks like big buff video game killer man.
I'm fine with that.
Looks like how he did in the last game aside from like the helmet looks a little different.
And he's got the yeah.
Was the Doom guy ever meant to be like a relatable normal guy?
I could really see myself as the Doom guy, the eternal embodiment of unquenchable rage
and pain and the dawn is under that helmet.
Oh yeah.
I really hope he is in these concept illustrations.
He's had a bit of an update.
Look at this dude.
What's wrong with it?
Why is he laughing?
The sausage arm.
My God, this is terrible.
Well, I don't see it.
He's too thick.
Apparently for this guy.
I on the other hand, think that I like being too thick.
It's almost like he's wearing power armor or something that box out like his existing appendages.
Yeah.
Like literally the only criticism I have of any thing that I've seen from Doom
eternal is the HUD looks a little too bright and large, which could easily be fixed.
And that's literally the only thing I didn't like about it.
Otherwise, it looks fucking amazing.
Yeah.
Yeah.
This is like a really.
We do not endorse fat shaming.
I do.
We do too.
You should you should.
I happily do that on my own channel.
I'm right there with you.
I'm perfectly fine with fat shaming.
It's like I wouldn't I wouldn't make fun of so many people into not being fat.
We only shame ugly people, not fat people.
That's disgusting.
All right.
You can control whether or not you're ugly or not.
You know, fat people are ugly.
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's not like it's a choice of how much butter you eat or anything.
No, it climbed down my throat, officer.
I can't go to the gym.
I'm allergic to exercise.
The burger slipped and fell down my throat.
I don't know what happened.
Why do you never pull them out?
So I wouldn't choke on it.
This makes it funny.
So swinging from something is.
So we make an argument, please.
He's about he's about to use his voice.
I mean, I'm seeing this and I'm like, yeah, this looks fucking awesome.
Yeah, yeah.
This guy's criticizing like of doom has always had this guy.
This guy's criticizing like basic game mechanics that are there for simplicity
and ease of traversing the environment as a bad thing.
Doom has always had an element of strong element relating to level exploration.
And so these mechanics will add a great deal to your ability to find secrets and move around
the map and stay mobile.
Also allows the devs to be more creative with the map design now that they have
all this other stuff to work with.
He said he said Prince of Persia Parkour.
And it's like, what exactly do you mean?
And is that a bad I don't know.
I've never played it.
So I don't play Prince of Persia.
Let's have a look.
That's armor.
Why is there money flying out of them?
There is that's armor.
It's in the last game.
Armor was green in the last game, both in single player and multiplayer.
I think the only difference is that they didn't literally pop out as you were shooting them.
But yeah, they did like down.
Right.
I saw them.
You'd get ammo.
It would it would give you a whole bunch of ammo.
But I think it's kind of what I'm saying.
Armor came out only when you killed them.
Like I don't know what was why is that bad?
Yeah, that seems cool because as you damage them and their armor comes off,
you can pick it up.
That seems reasonable to me.
Yeah, like it's the reason like if you kill the person,
you'd be able to loot them for armor or like ammo or whatever.
Like and this is just like facilitating that quickly and easily.
Unless it is a new thing in this game that they do drop money.
I have no idea.
Like I didn't.
I'm pretty certain that was armor.
Yellow Gore key.
Okay.
Why'd you zoom in on it?
All right.
Well, more gore.
In case you missed it.
Quake.
That was that.
I don't know what point that was.
Well, I want to play this game.
I haven't actually made a point yet.
There's lots of gore.
Wow, more gore.
It's like.
Yeah, please give me more.
This is doom.
So like his point so far has been like it's easy to reverse the world
and you get armor off enemies when you kill them.
And you look like a badass.
And this goal is like advertising the game for looks great.
But he's about to use his voice now so we can we can actually hear some arguments.
In case you missed it.
Quake con was this past week and we got some incredible new footage of the new doom eternal
which in case you missed it was announced at Bethesda's E3 conference
where we got some incredible rendered trailer of the new Doom Eternal.
This is not Doom 2, of course, because that would be confusing.
This is Doom Eternal.
And yeah, they don't want to make another Doom 2.
Yeah.
Yeah, Doom Eternal.
You know, most people say like you shouldn't just rename something the same exact name.
Even God of War 4 just calling it God of War people criticized that.
Same with the Tomb Raider reboot.
I mean, most people don't want that.
And you're you're just saying we should have another Doom 2.
Imagine you were in a room with two people named Carl.
It would be confusing.
Yes.
The web slinging Spider-Man with a gun gameplay certainly looks.
High octane.
Yeah, he relates that to Spider-Man.
I don't see any webs.
I guess he can use the grappling hook from the chain.
Yeah.
Like you can leap from platform to platform.
Platforming is like Spider-Man.
Yeah.
And I've talked about how Doom is speed.
In fact, that was my biggest complaint.
Oh, they need to be happy.
VFR.
It had no speed.
It included weird decisions.
Doom VFR.
It looks like it had an awful lot of speed there.
Well, he's specifically going out to the VR vision, I guess.
I haven't played it.
Who in the world is going to play the VR version of Doom?
Some people did.
Yes.
Let's criticize like the shittiest version of any Doom game you can possibly get your hands on for
being too slow.
I do, but that that doesn't have anything to do with this video.
I don't know why we're talking about Doom VR.
Spider-Man's coming out.
That's true.
That's true.
It's like hacking mini games and putting out fires.
Literally putting out a fire with a fire extinguisher.
Quintessential Doom right there.
Is this video criticizing Doom VR or Doom?
Yeah, I agree.
Those are.
Fire is weird.
But that's a different game.
This one feels Doom, but bastardized.
The fact that they call it.
You haven't played it.
You don't know what it feels like.
Instead of Doom.
Yeah, it feels Doom, but it bastardized.
Okay, two to avoid people searching for Doom two from finding all that other stuff really
kind of cements how they feel about the history of the game.
The reason that people have an issue with the fact that EA called it Star Wars Battlefront
two is because the EA version of Star Wars Battlefront two is a way shittier game and
the other Star Wars Battlefront two from 2005.
It's a way better one.
People have an issue with that because you don't want to confuse the two games rather
than like squash the history of the original.
This is a good thing.
My God, you're an idiot.
Yeah, I don't think it's a matter of them trying to scrub the history, but like,
yeah, just ignore Doom two.
We go to a completely different direction.
Who cares about Doom two?
You realize if they if they named it Doom two, then all that would come up is this.
I mean, if you look up Chernobyl on Google images,
now most of the images that come up are the Chernobyl show.
I hear that was based on a real event.
No, no.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah, according to the fine journalists, the daily mail.
It was based on like a fictional book by Stephen Sanderson.
Makes sense.
It is a good thing.
Don't call it Doom two.
Yes, I'm a bit biased about Doom.
I made a video about how it's the most influential.
Oh, and also it's thematically appropriate to call it Doom Eternal based on the lore
of the Doom Slayer and the conflict in the lore.
So it makes sense.
Why are you advocating for calling it Doom two?
Yeah, we have one.
It's dumb.
We already have a Doom two.
And you might be like, well, they called it Doom Doom.
You know, I wasn't exactly on board with them calling Doom Doom.
Yeah, that's why we have to say Doom 2016.
Yeah, which is annoying.
So in the sense that people can't wait for them to remake Final Fantasy seven.
So what's the big deal about remaking Doom two?
It's not the same thing.
This isn't a remake.
Yeah, this is a different game entirely.
Yeah.
Also, do we need to explain?
Okay.
So like Wolf has already gone over it, but same titles are really fucking annoying.
Whenever there's no way around it.
And so if I was a huge fan of Doom two and I was like, oh man,
I can't wait to play Doom two and I can access it on like an emulator for blah blah blah.
People be like, what do you mean?
It's not even out yet.
You'd be like, uh, that one.
Then someone's like, oh, Doom two is finally out.
Some guys living under a rock would be like, what do you mean?
It's just, it just creates confusion for no reason.
And yeah, the worst offenders gotta be Star Wars Battlefront two.
Cause every time you say that people are like, why do you keep saying it's a good game?
Yeah.
I mean, people just call it God of war four, even though the four is not actually in the title.
Some people call the 2016 Doom Doom four.
Yeah.
Which, you know, makes things simpler, but it's, I can get what companies really want to use it.
Uh, like doom the name alone for the first one.
I could just, it just to me, I'm just like, oh, such a cool fucking day.
I was just like, yeah, redo the fret.
But it's annoying.
I think when you, when you're separated by that long a period, you know, doom came out in what,
93, something like that.
You, you can almost get away with like renaming it then.
But you've kind of, you've, you've had enough time pass where you can just call it doom again.
And it's like, yeah, I, I actually should probably head out so I can put some clothes on and leave.
You don't have big clothes on.
Don't, don't put clothes on in our account.
Oh, I dropped a thing.
You don't have to wear it.
It's not for you.
It's for me, of course.
I take my clothes off for most guests.
Beautiful.
Yeah.
I'm honored.
If that means you're out, it's, it's been fun.
Mr. Rag is.
Yeah.
I will catch you guys when I return later on this afternoon.
Oh yeah.
How long?
Thank you.
We'll probably be going still.
I will say we might still be going.
How long are you going to be?
Maybe two hours.
Oh, we'll still be going.
All right.
Then I'll see you when I get back.
All right.
See you then, dude.
Bye.
Bye.
Goodbye, man.
What a massive.
Um, so, uh, dark master, the dark master and chat said,
that mola, what's wrong with doom too?
Is that a bad game?
Do you get annoyed when Lord of the rings have all the same title with a subtitle?
Um, no, I don't have any problem with doom too.
I love doom and doom too.
Talking about making a new game and calling it doom too.
Just like if you made a new film and called it Lord of the rings,
the fellowship of the ring, I'd be like, fuck off.
That's not what you are.
And then they were like, we're remaking it.
It's completely different with different everything.
I'd be like, why are you calling it that?
It'd be like, because.
Well, it's one thing if it's a remake, because I mean,
you could make that argument for the Lord of the rings films,
because there's the animated ones.
But this isn't a remake.
This is a complete different game.
I don't think.
Did Peter Jackson say he was remaking the animated ones?
No.
Well, I mean, it's just a live action version of it,
but it's still technically the exact.
The rules would change if it's an adaptation as well, just because.
Yeah, that kind of depends.
Yeah, it's like it's all from the book, ultimately.
But the bottom line is, if they called this Doom Doom 2,
despite the fact that it's a completely different game,
it's disingenuous.
They can do it.
It's really annoying as fuck.
Yeah, it's really irritating.
Like, don't call Battlefront 2 from EA Battlefront 2,
because there's already a Battlefront 2 and it's way better.
Caleb Bob just said, what's wrong with Duba Turtle?
I'm not saying anything wrong with Duba Turtle.
The HUD is too glowy.
That's literally the only criticism I have.
It's like a 10 out of 10 game so far.
Also, we're going to bring in someone to fill the fourth gap.
I'm sorry about this.
Oh God, who's this massive going to be?
No, not him.
Not him.
I don't want him.
I mean, all this talk about Lord of the Rings summoned him.
Ah, damn it.
Did you?
I'm always happy to be EVAP Sloppy Seconds.
Well, you Fringy and Alex are in that essential trio of Sloppy Seconds.
That's the link.
We're currently looking at why Doom Eternal looks terrible or awful.
Oh, the thumbnail says awful.
The title says terrible.
So both awful and terrible.
What's wrong with Jay?
Everything's wrong with Jay.
Ask him what movies he's seen and you'll find like three or four of them.
Wait, wait, Drinker.
Ask Jay if he's seen some of your favorites.
Just ask him if he's seen some movies and pick some of your favorites.
Literally any movie that comes to mind.
Jay, have you seen The Last Jedi?
I have, unfortunately.
Think of some good ones.
Yeah, I can't think of any good ones recently.
Oh, just at all times, all time.
Just pick any movie.
Literally at any point in the history of cinema.
Jay, have you seen Terminator 2?
Yes, I really like Terminator 2.
And I just watched the original Terminator today.
Have you seen Street Fighter, the movie?
I have not.
Well, then you're missing out because there's some truly glorious memes on the go there.
It doesn't sound like it would be the kind of thing where you'd expect like...
It really isn't what you would expect, no.
I'll think about you.
List off a couple in a row.
Just only answer yes or no, Jay.
All right, Jurassic Park.
Yes or no, Jay?
Fuck you.
I have seen Jurassic Park here.
Falling down.
No.
Event Horizon?
No.
I'll throw in a couple.
Predator.
What was the last one?
Predator.
Oh, yeah.
Uh, Big Trouble in Little China?
No.
Flash Gordon?
Yes.
Cool.
Do I have to keep this going for the next like 20 minutes?
I feel like I did pretty well out of that one.
That was like a good 50%.
Usually it's less than that.
Like, Jay, Gladiator.
No.
Braveheart?
No.
Kingdom of Heaven?
No.
Uh, aliens?
Yes.
Alien?
Yes.
Taken?
No.
Blade Runner?
Yes.
Well, I got bored of it and turned it off.
Any of the John Wick movies?
Yeah, I've seen the first John Wick movie.
The Green Mile?
No.
The Shawshank Redemption?
No, but that's like on the top of my list at the moment.
Stand by me?
No, it's also right at the top of my list.
Dances with Wolves?
No.
Birdman?
No.
Rainman?
No.
Good Wheel Hunting?
No.
Saving Private Ryan?
No.
You've got to play it after the lab.
Here's the best one, though.
Here's the best one.
The Lion King.
No, you know I haven't seen this.
I know.
That's why I said it again.
I'm unhappy, no.
Yeah, we just wanted to make sure you understand what kind of creature this is.
So, like, do you spend great periods of your life in a solitary confinement or not?
And then, like, you let you out, like, for a couple of months at a time?
I mean, it makes sense.
His career right now is essentially both film criticism and counter film criticism.
So it would make sense he hasn't seen many films, right?
Yes.
Totally, yeah.
Great.
I think it's good, though, because you've got all these films in store for you that we've already seen.
There is an element of jealousy of, like, bad.
You've got to be great experiences to come if you watch all those.
I wish I could erase my memory of a lot of the movies I love to watch them again.
It is offensive, though, that you haven't seen Saved by Ryan.
I want to do that.
That's offensive.
I mostly like pop culture films, though, so I don't get to see good ones.
Don't get to see it.
Those are good ones if there's something stopping you.
You know what I meant by that.
I don't.
I refuse.
The thing is, I don't know about you guys, but I find myself watching older movies more now
because, like, movies that come out now just make me sad deep inside.
Yeah.
You leave, like, a void in my soul.
Me and Wolf have been watching a 90s TV show, so yeah.
Older stuff tends to be easier on the brain than themes.
But, you know, what are we to say about that?
Then we're just a bunch of dinosaurs who can't appreciate themes
and other things that are also things.
Women.
Those.
Except for Buffy.
Representation.
So anyway, Jay, you love Doom, right?
Yeah, I definitely know all about it.
All right, let's listen to these arguments.
Other stuff really kind of cements how they feel about the history of the game they're working on.
Admittedly, I'm a bit biased about Doom.
I made a video about how it's the most influential game of all time,
where I condensed years of history and probably a two-hour TEDx talk about the game.
Why does this guy sound like he's about 50 years old?
He does sound kind of old, actually.
Someone in chastity sounded fat.
It's weird, it's like, I remember back in the day when I used to play Doom.
He's explaining his bias to us and why he hates the game, I guess.
The new one, I'm not sure.
Sorry, nope.
Into 24 minutes.
I even taught John Romero a few things about Doom that he didn't know.
So yes, I'm biased.
I've never said I wasn't.
This, however, is weird.
It's so weird.
Why is there platforming?
Fuck off!
Have you ever heard of the concept of 3D environments that you have to navigate
and you have to go up and down and forward and backward?
It's almost like the original Doom was made 30 years ago
and it's going to be a little different from games of today.
I'm pretty sure that shit's been around since, like, fucking Tomb Raider.
But what you're missing is he said he's biased already,
so that's code for don't criticize me.
That's code for, hey.
I would love to see this guy's ideal version of Doom,
like where it's just a flat map.
I guess it would be the original Doom.
Yeah, that would be it.
So as you could argue that there's platforming in the original Doom,
not to this extent, of course, but you need to get to certain areas.
You do have to jump over lava and stuff.
What was his point entirely, though?
Is it literally just that this platform?
So weird.
Why is there platforming in my Doom?
There's literally Assassin's Creed.
Okay, so platforming, this might just be a problem on his side.
He doesn't realize that there's platforming in the original Doom, right?
That's how you get to a lot of the secret areas.
I'm going to give this guy a slight break here and say it's a bit weird to be doing
these jumps where you have to hang off objects and stuff when it's in first person,
because it's not that intuitive.
The problem being that platforming, the catch-all statement of like,
okay, you might want to be a little bit more specific because
I mean, I think people will be very disappointed if there was no platforming in Doom.
People with chatter quoting my Doom.
In my Doom.
In my Doom.
Platformed Doom.
This is pretty low-level platforming compared to the vast majority of games you see nowadays.
So what's the problem with this?
Is the problem with this pipe thing that you feel like it would be weird in a first
person shooter to use it?
Is that the contention or?
Well, for me or for him?
Well, because you said that it's a bit weird to have this, right?
Yeah, the only thing I can take from what he's saying here is like,
it's slightly unintuitive when you can't see your character's body to know what you can hang
off and what you can jump off and what you can grab onto and stuff,
because you're not going to be able to see it happen.
Well, I mean, it depends.
Titanfall does it really well.
I was about to say, so the way you do it, right, is if all four of us were about to run up to this
pipe, I run in a way that's like, okay, I'm going to try and aim it so that the pipe ends up around
where my gun is, and hopefully that'll be the way because I don't know for sure.
But someone like Jay could fuck up completely and jump underneath it and hope to grab it.
And then the character does.
And he's like, oh, that's how it works.
And someone goes really high above it and just trips over and falls down.
They're like, oh, so they're the limits, you know, like through testing it.
But I imagine that once you play this, you know, for like an hour, you'll be fully understanding
exactly how these pipes work and how you can use them to your advantage.
And then you'll find I'm sure there's going to be like a little tutorial-ish segment at the
beginning of the game for this anyway.
And I'm sure that there'll be videos of people kicking absolute ass involving pipes.
They're doing really awesome shit with them.
I don't know, like if they put like a score attack mode in this where you can like
get points for shit, that could really up the replayability for the campaign, too.
I think because this could be depending on what they do with this pipe shit and the flipping and
jumping up and going down stuff.
It's like you could make some pretty cool gameplay with it, some interesting verticality.
Well, I think for speed problems, it would be amazing.
You know, you could do some great stuff there.
And then if someone said, yeah, but molar, it's not doom, I'd be like, what do you what is
do with that statement?
Someone in the chat said platforming is hard for fat.
Surprise.
Just expressing fat shaming.
Yeah, I approve of that.
Unless you unless you're putting it into ugly shaming.
We're OK with it if it's ugly.
Swinging poles in my doom.
This isn't to say that doom hasn't had some light platforming before jumping from area
to area or using the environment to facilitate movement and do things faster or cooler.
But I love the way he says cooler there.
Like you really have to force that one out.
I just I like the idea that he's like, yes, yes, yes, we've got stuff before,
but I'm drawing a line.
OK, this is where it's not OK.
It's like, why though?
Yeah.
Glowing yellow poles that swing you.
This is like basic stuff.
They're not going.
It's just a yellow pole.
I was going to say, I don't know if it's glowy.
It just looks yellow.
It's literally colored that way.
So people understand it's an object that can be grappled.
Glowing yellow.
Oh, my God.
That's glowing about that.
It's a bright yellow.
I love the fact that this guy got so hung up on this fucking pole
that he made a video based on it.
In his mind, it probably is glowing.
Yeah.
Once the color is bright enough, it is fucking glowing.
All right.
This is like basic stuff from a tutorial level of a platforming game.
Jump on the pole.
Swing to the next platform.
Do that.
That's not what they're showing.
They're showing off what you can do in the game.
But he makes this sound like it's not a free demo is like.
He makes it sound like there's nothing else to do.
It's like there's many different ways you can then do any other things.
It's probably different height variations for how you get off the pole.
I don't know that for sure.
I'm just saying that that's to imply that it's like, oh, there you go.
Go to platform A, then B.
Oh, you did it.
It's like it's not it's not that the doom we're talking about.
This shit's going to be difficult or the hardest.
I mean, it hasn't only a very small percentage of the people
that played Doom actually beaten its highest difficulty
because it's just that difficult.
Yeah, I imagine that has double jumps.
Apparently, they've added in a dashing ability,
which feels ripped right out of Doom VFR.
But so well, yeah, I was going to say, OK, so dashing is not something
that belongs to Doom VFR, but OK.
So way because it was in Doom VFR bad rather than just badly executed
because it's a shitty VR game.
I don't know.
This is criticism that it was in another Doom game
and then that makes it bad.
Sorry, I just read this.
You guys are spending five minutes on each sentence.
You're really going to dab on the guy for talking about a poll.
He's the one talking about the poll.
He made a video on it.
He's talking about other things.
So, you know, yeah, we're about we're now talking about
the fact that you can dash is apparently a bad.
I don't know.
You know, only yeah, you might have some killer like like criticism coming up.
But like so far, it's been pretty bleak.
The worst thing about the poll is that only 60 percent of the people in it
have seen have seen the Game of Thrones finale.
I understand.
My brain took a bit for that.
It was like he's making a joke there.
I got to figure it out.
But I did.
Unfortunately, the time to figure it out.
Oh, no. Oh, no.
There was just silence.
I've done a bad.
Your joke was too complicated by the time people figure it out.
They can't laugh.
Yeah, I understand my jokes.
Oh, he is like half a bottle.
Jack Daniels already is like jokes like that person.
I've been drinking rum, but you've had way more than me.
I have one.
Yeah, I guess I'll be the sober noble in this call.
He is a sober noble.
Tubal.
That's true.
Apparently they've added a sober nobles now.
I don't want to be that.
Gotta call us the sober nobles.
Soba Gables.
Game.
Jump on the pole.
Swing to the next platform.
Doom has double jumps.
Apparently they've added an adashing ability,
which feels ripped right out of Doom VFR, but whatever.
At least it sort of makes sense in the movement style of Doom.
It has a grappling gun straight from Just Cause,
which I mean, it's kind of stupid on paper, but it looks okay in the footage.
You've got some sweet air kills, and again,
it facilitates cool kills and faster gameplay core concepts of Doom.
But parkour?
Polls for parkour in Doom?
Why is the pole bothering you so much?
Yeah, he's fucking obsessed about this pole, man.
Let's go to the one pole in this map.
This is like the most meek parkour I've seen too.
Like there's no wall running.
There's no like crazy Titanfall 2-esque tricks.
It's like you're swinging from a pole and ending up
at a different place on the other side of the pole.
Yeah, like from the footage as well, like when he's talking about the grapple gun,
it doesn't seem like you've got to do that.
Like it's just your option.
You know, it's something you can use, you know,
tactically if you really want to, or you can just blast the shit out of whatever you're fighting.
Why is that a problem?
I'm going to make a note for Efep, not Efep,
Godelb3, I'm going to repeatedly complain about a glowing yellow pole throughout the video.
Like literally his only argument is it's not
something that Doom did in the past, therefore bad.
How about people in chat saying he's in chat, by the way?
He is. I've seen him.
Is he? What's his name?
Crymore.
Oh, hello.
Was he here listening to us criticizing his video?
Apparently.
Yeah, it happens.
This has happened before.
Both Just Write and Snowman Gaming were in the chat
when we were criticizing the videos, we brought them on.
It was really epic.
I want to ask him actually,
dude, do you remember when you had to fight in the Korean War?
So anyway.
What up?
What up, my homies?
Okay, well, at least it's children.
Except now there's wall climbing.
Like it's bad enough that we have Sausage Doomguy now.
What's what's the Sausage Doomguy complaint as well?
Because he's thick.
This guy who has literally always been buff.
Let me find a picture of Doomguy from Doom One.
Some guy in chat said I'm sick of the wealth.
So this guy whose only characteristic is that he's basically a walking, killing machine.
Your criticism of him is like he's a bit swole.
Okay, yeah, look at this.
What how is this not Sausage Doom?
Yeah, actually, they're kind of, you know,
if we're really talking about sausages here, which I'm I'm on board with guys.
I love talking a bit about.
Yeah, bring on the sausage chat.
Even the color of his arms and just the I'll put it on screen in a second.
Like this, this guy's into some serious gear when you look at him.
Like there's veins popping out.
There's muscles everywhere.
He is fully sausage color as well.
Yeah, I was going to say this.
This is very sausagy.
Like I'm getting a sausage sense here.
And look at those demons.
They're like sausage.
I always wondered actually from what is going on with his left hand.
Charging up a spell, I guess.
He's getting ready to flex.
Asked something.
And look at the demon grabbing his arm.
He looks into it.
It's a sausage man.
Like, why would you know?
I don't know.
Sausage man, bad sausage.
Just picture this sausage in a suit,
grappling a wall and leaping from side to side.
Like he's Lara Croft.
It's the most ridiculous thing in it.
That's not it.
Is it the most ridiculous thing, though?
Is it it would not make even more sense in this case than Lara Croft.
Because he's literally a tank of a person.
I would love to see Lara Croft in this fucking situation.
Like, is this alone enough to say?
Is this alone enough to say that the game looks terrible?
A pole and you can climb walls?
It's like, wow.
What about all the other stuff?
I'm assuming he likes the other stuff.
It's sad that I'm going to say something about that.
Anything that's like classic doom he's fine with.
I really want to play the game he's literally describing of like
you're a literal sausage.
You're a sausage shape like Lara Croft.
We can call it sausage raider.
You just play a two raider game, but there's sausage flopping around.
Well, you used to get the new raider patches,
so like I want a sausage raider patch.
Fit wall climbing.
The only thing this game appears to be missing from platformers in general
is a collectathon, which Doom absolutely already had.
Collect-a-doom.
This might sound-
Is that a bad thing?
Collectibles are bad?
So...
I don't think he said it's bad.
Well, that's why I asked.
Let's see what this genius has to say.
I hate finding secrets and cool things in games, which isn't true.
I like that there's extra ammo, hidden weapons, easter eggs, and more armor hidden in the vents.
I don't like that I'm going to have to jump on a yellow pole-
Fucking coal, man!
Like, is this guy had bad experiences in a pole-dancing pole-
I don't even want to ask what happened with the sausages.
I think he might have actually failed boot camp,
so maybe that's the reason why he's got like a pole-phobia.
Like he tried to do the pull-ups and just couldn't-
Stop sausage shaming.
Stop sausage-
...really marked wall with white chunks taken out of it,
and then linked to the other side, then jump onto a yellow platform area.
So he's explaining how it'll be really dumbed down, like really obvious.
So picture like you walk into a room and there's this one big section that has clearly walkable
walls and you go to the top and then there's a door you open then there's a collectible.
He's like, God, this is so humdrum and just shit.
I think that there'll be a little better than that.
I think that that will happen, but that'll be like the easy collectibles
and then there'll be harder ones.
The thing is, yeah, it was dumb ever about like, you know,
really taking the time to explore your environment and methodically search out everything.
It was fast paced. It was always meant to be, you know, move on to the next area.
Well, in part, there was like trying to find the secrets to get the big weapons to fight
through the next area. And some of those were hard to find.
Like you had to shoot like a random piece of wall that looked no different from another piece of wall.
Yeah.
You open into a room and you get a chainsaw or something.
Any secrets area to pull myself up.
And there's a yellow star and I just need nine hundred and ninety eight more.
There wasn't even that many collectibles.
It's not quite Mario Odyssey with the moons.
All right. It's not quite that to mention.
All those collectibles revealed like cool stuff like 3D models and shit.
Yeah, I don't know.
Look, I'm sitting here thinking like, even if the worst vision of all the things he's describing
were happening, I was like, there's still a whole game there.
Like, do you hate the whole thing because of these? I don't know.
To the Doom creative director or executive producer,
it's like they have no vision for Doom beyond what they've been told to think.
There will be eight guns because in Doom you've got to have a shotgun.
You've got to have a plasma rifle. You've got to have a rocket launcher.
They're focusing on the lore of Doom and expanding it.
Wait, wait, wait.
Isn't this just like what he was complaining about?
Like he didn't like anything that goes beyond the Doom lore.
Okay, with them building up some on some will.
You might be like at the expense of gameplay.
I'm like, I don't think it is at the expense.
Are we getting like another Godzilla argument?
It's like, do you supposed to have a good story?
I hope not.
Isn't it like, you know, there's certain guns and weapons and stuff in Doom that just serve a purpose?
Doom isn't exactly known for story and lore.
2016's Doom had you killing demons within moments of beginning the game,
which sounds like it might change an eternal.
But this is the thing, I think it's fucking cool as hell to have a story behind Doom.
Not to mention, I mean, I doubt it's going to be a super crazy one,
you look at the Wolfenstein games compared to the Doom games.
Wolfenstein games are way more story centric as opposed to Doom.
Granted, Wolfenstein shit the bed immediately after the new order, but you know.
Yeah, I just I don't think the gameplay is from what we've seen in the trailers,
it doesn't look like the gameplay is suffering in order to create other elements or buffer other
elements of the gaming stuff like story and whatever.
I mean, all they've been showing is a bunch of gameplay shit.
They haven't said any or shown anything about the story aside from that trailer.
That to have a shotgun, you've got to have a plasma rifle.
You've got to have a rocket launcher.
They're focusing on the lore of them and it's literally the next thing that it said,
but they've all been completely redone.
Yeah, they read.
I guess the point of the person saying that is that these things have to be in Doom,
but we're going to do them again and different to keep it fresh.
So like that would seem to go against the point.
The part of the quote that isn't being read.
If they were just if they were just doing it because they had to,
then they wouldn't have just like completely redone everything.
Banding it into a Doom universe because God knows that the thing Doom was missing was a
compelling storyline.
Why not, though?
Why does it.
Why is it bad for anything to have a compelling story like you can you can give it a storyline
that doesn't totally like intrude on the gameplay.
This game has a good story.
How dare it.
Especially if it's stuff you can just ignore.
Like if it's stuff you can just, you know, fucking run past and shoot everything.
What a terrible fucking argument.
Godzilla is not supposed to have a story.
It's like, well, the story that was there was shit.
That was the argument.
God damn it.
You've got to have multiplayer.
And since the last Doom's multiplayer died pretty quickly due to a bot.
Already they already said that they're not going to be doing the same kind of multiplayer
that they did at the time because they want it to be more unique.
Like they're taking out deathmatch and all that shit.
And again, I get the idea that if they bring in multiplayer,
there will be less focus on the campaign, but they managed to achieve the multiplayer
of the previous game will be absolutely every single person who played the last Doom
isn't unanimous agreement that the campaign was the best part of the game.
Yeah. And like, like you talk about Doom, no one ever references.
I don't know, man, like the idea that they're going to try and make a multiplayer
functioning when everyone's interested in.
I'm like, go for it.
But obviously, I think they can pull that off while maintaining their storyline or
their single player mode because they did it in the first one.
They made a multiplayer while also making a single player.
Like, I don't know.
Do you remember the craze?
I think it was around the Xbox 360 era where games were just getting
multiplayer is no matter what.
And then single players started to suffer miserably because it was almost like
multiplayer games being sold with single players tacked on.
Yeah. If anything, nowadays,
it seems like there's a push to go back to the single player market.
Yeah, because single player games are fucking great or they can be like,
don't forget about them, please.
But, you know, Doom seems to be able to try and achieve it both.
And I'm like, you know, more power to you.
Try and try and do it well, I guess.
I mean, I didn't really like the multiplayer from the last game.
That's my point.
I really cared about if they're trying to make it more compelling,
interesting or engaging, whatever.
I'm like, yeah, go ahead and try.
There's got to be some kind of fun multiplayer to make out of Doom.
I just don't know that I don't personally know how to do it.
Because that's a mention.
Haven't the other Doom games already had player?
Um, I believe so.
Pretty certain they did at least one or two of them.
I never played them myself.
I only played the campaigns.
Doom 2016 was the only one that I played the multiplayer for.
I know.
Quake 3, Team Arena or whatever.
That was like the peak of that era of multiplayer,
or at least one of the ones that was a pillar for starting it all up.
But I'm sure that you would have had super nerds being able to play multiplayer Doom and stuff.
Quake was more associated with multiplayer, I think.
Yeah.
From Dark Souls.
I think Shane Cole.
I think Shane Cole is fucked.
Oh.
It was playing just like while all you guys were talking and I couldn't stop it.
Refresh.
I think that's done it.
Excellent.
Near the end anyway.
Quickly due to a botched beta, let's add in invasions from Dark Souls,
which they call one of the ways you can play the Doom dance in a social way.
What the hell is a Doom dance?
That you can probably turn off.
As long as you can turn it off, I really don't mind.
I'm pretty sure there's like the way of the blue, or maybe I'm thinking of something else,
but there's like a banner in Dark Souls 3 at least that you can apply to not get invaded unless
it's like a NPC invasion, which happens like two times in the entire game.
You can play offline, which will stop it.
Yeah.
How dare they add in things that you can turn on?
I was going to say, you know, depending on the way that they actually implement it,
who knows what it just, the idea is like, hey, that's not Doom.
I'd be like, guys.
Do you want to just re-release the original Doom?
Is that what you're after at this point?
Like, I like the idea of new stuff.
Not to say that this would be great.
Just give these things a chance, maybe.
People in the chat are saying it's optional, like confirmed.
Okay, then.
The main thing is it allows you to experience the Doom dance with your friends.
What are you talking about?
Seriously.
Doom is a game, and games are meant to be fun.
I totally understand gamifying what would, in reality,
be a pretty awful experience to try to live through.
But it's this misguid-
What?
What is he even trying to say with this?
I thought, uh...
It wouldn't really be fun to kill demons.
If you were actually in the Doom game, or the Doom universe, it would be a horrible experience.
Yeah, it probably would.
So...
I can agree with that.
He was leading up to a point with that, and I'm really curious what it's going to be.
Someone said you can play offline, challenge and beat an arena boss,
and some areas don't even allow multiplayer in the first place.
So congratulations, buddy.
Your criticism is completely null and vo-
Um, get that whole bit.
Allows you to experience the Doom dance with your friends.
What are you talking about?
Yeah, uh, because I just read it in chat as well.
So I'm assuming what they mean by that is you can play Doom with someone else,
so the experience of Doom can be with someone else.
As long as that's optional, I'd totally have a go of that.
I'd be like, guys, can we actually annihilate demons together?
That would be pretty cool.
Yeah.
Fast-paced.
I mean, now we could do- we should have gaming for that.
And if someone said, that's not Doom, I'd be like,
can you stop saying that's not Doom?
Like, it's starting to get really annoying.
Hashtag not my Doom.
Doom is a game, and games are meant to be fun.
I totally understand-
I'm actually gonna put one in chat right here.
Doom is a game, games are meant to be fun.
I think that's an important message, people.
Stand game-ifying what would, in reality,
be a pretty awful experience to try to live through.
But it's this misguided need to make everything
MORE EXTREME
that seems to have led to things like-
I don't know, man.
Doom seems pretty extreme already.
Like, the idea that there's a cap on it to me, it seems like-
How is any of this making it more extreme?
Like, you can climb stuff and-
We've got a fucking yellow pole, Jay.
Is this the same argument as those gaming journalists
who were upset with the new Call of Duty,
that it's too realistic?
It's too extreme because you're a sausage.
Yeah.
It's too extreme because you might get put into a situation
where you have to fire on civilians.
Like, that's modern warfare, you know?
Like, what exactly do they expect from this?
I can understand why people would be upset by that, but-
Yeah, but-
Don't take it away from other people
who want a realistic stimulation of something fucked up.
Daily reminder that Amir did nothing wrong.
17th centuries of Marley Cost is a lie.
Stop hating your ancestors and fighting Marley's war.
Eldians rise up.
Extreme sausage belt.
I think I'm the only one in this call that actually understands that.
Everything.
More extreme.
That seems to have led to things like our popcorn jackpot armor dispenser.
This just feels so wrong.
And I don't even know how to express the level of dismay
and distaste I had when I saw-
It feels wrong and it makes you upset.
I need more than that, dude.
You need to come up with an argument that actually makes cogents, or coherent sense.
Yeah, so his argument is that Doom makes light of ammo collection and things like that
in a horrific hellscape environment.
That's always been Doom.
Why would he have a problem with that?
It feels wrong.
This in the reveal.
Of course, it's all about making sure you get a game benefit and an awesome visual spectacle.
You know, Doom did pretty good on the visual spectacle thing.
Wait, is this an actual example of the-
You're just not getting what you expected.
Oh, you mean like, is this an actual-
Like, is he that guy?
Like, you know how people say that that's what-
That's why people don't like The Last Jedi.
You just-
It's just not what you expected and you're mad that your theories weren't true.
And like, he's not getting-
This might actually be the real world equivalent of that.
Didn't think those people existed, though.
Without feeling so cheapened.
Who are they trying to appeal to with platforming and wall jumping-
Dude, can you honestly-
People that like really fun games, I guess.
Come on, there's so many people who are hyped for this.
Are you kidding?
This is like the most hyped game for pretty much everyone.
What you'll find when everyone says, what you're looking forward to in E3,
they'll be like, aside from Doom of the Turtle, obviously,
because everyone's excited for that.
Oh yeah, yeah, so we will.
So this, this.
Come on.
This is really the last game I'm hyped for this year
because all the other games I want come out next year.
This guy seems to have a real issue with sausages and pole dancing.
Now, I don't want to make inferences here, but-
Do you think he might have gone to like some bar
and there was like a sausage, like actually pole dancing in front of him?
We've all been to bars like that in Thailand,
and I'm just saying like it can go horribly wrong.
Or horribly right.
Yeah, well, it depends on your outlook, I suppose.
Crank Gorilla said, you guys are suckers.
Enjoy wasting your time with buddy.
Is that a reference to Doom of the Turtle?
Because I really don't think it's going to be much of a gamble
in terms of getting what you want, the trailers.
It's not going to be a waste, I don't think.
I mean, how have you seen the Crobcat video showing how
the game improved from the original, or Doom 2016, that is,
improved from the E3 footage, like substantially?
I mean, I won't be buying it-
Probably going to be better than what we've seen if that says anything.
I won't be buying it like day one.
I'll just like wait for just an easy confirmation.
Yeah, it's amazing.
And I'll be like, okay, cool.
I'm definitely getting it day one.
Yeah, and I wouldn't condemn anybody for it because it's a good gamble.
Like I said, it's a good gamble.
I can always refund anyway, after the two hours.
But does anybody expect Doom of the Turtle not to be amazing outside of Crybowl?
Who seems to be doing a lot of crying in this video?
Who are they trying to appeal to with-
They're trying to appeal to everyone who isn't you, I guess.
I hadn't seen anything of this before I saw this video
because I don't follow Doom or really care about it.
And this makes me want to play the game.
Damn, you're appealing to Jay.
It looks really good.
It looks really fun.
Forming and wall jumping, sausage marines, and popcorn enemies.
It's bizarre.
In fact, everything Bethesda has been doing this year is bizarre.
Did you watch QuakeCon?
Are you excited for Doom of the Turtle?
Let me know in the comments.
I'm sure it'll all sell.
Yeah, so we are very excited.
Yeah, I'm excited.
I'm gonna have a lot of fun with it.
Oh my god, this killed my excitement.
Get Battlefront 2 off the screen now.
Well, because you got-
Like, anyone who's watching this,
just let Crymoar know in his comments section
how excited you are for this game.
I mean, you haven't been living under a rock
not to know that it's the most anticipated game of E3, is it not?
Is there anything that beats-
Well, apparently a lot of people have let their excitement be known
in the 1.8 thousand dislikes to 201 likes, so.
Is it like, genuinely now, if you guys would guess,
what would be the game that's more anticipated
than Doom Eternal for this year?
For this year?
Is it, would the Jedi game be one of the closer ones, I guess?
I mean, I think a lot of-
Final Fantasy VII is not, is that next year?
Subverse.
That's my-
Dude, what about Cyberpunk?
We're Cyberpunk this year.
That's next year.
Yeah.
Oh, that's next year?
That's next year.
Yeah, comes out next year.
Oh, well, that's disqualified.
What a fucker.
Yeah, so games that are coming out this year,
is there anything that's more anticipated?
Master Chief Collection on PC, maybe?
Yeah, that's definitely a potential.
Oh, Death Stranding.
A lot of people are mentioning that.
Yeah.
Back to Worlds was pretty hyped for a while,
but I haven't seen anything about it recently.
I would say Star Citizen,
but that's not going to be released
for another 30 years or so.
Why did he bring up Battlefront II anyway?
What was he saying?
I have no idea.
Watch QuakeCon.
Are you excited for Doom Eternal?
Let me know in the comments.
I'm sure it'll all sell well,
because you gotta get those pre-order bonuses.
That doesn't change the fact that-
Yes, because that's the equivalent.
I was going to say,
there are good games that have pre-order bonuses.
I'm not a huge fan of the practice,
but the idea that it has pre-order bonuses
doesn't mean it's going to end up like Battlefront II.
I'm going to look up what the pre-order bonuses are for Doom Eternal.
Any excitement about Doom Eternal?
If you liked this video,
leave a like and share it to all your friends,
especially if they work at Bethesda.
Hopefully, they can rein in their insanity.
Yes, because everyone has friends that work at Bethesda.
How could someone who works at Bethesda
have worked with this video?
You told them that having a yellow pole
and walking on walls is bad.
Okay, so here's-
I love the idea that everyone in Bethesda
is going to panic mode
because Crymores criticise through game.
Oh shit, we need to redesign it.
Well, this is stupid.
Make the pole red.
Pre-purchase.
Don't make it glow.
So the pre-purchase stuff is a dute revenant,
which is just a revenant,
but with trombones instead of guns,
which is kind of funny.
Throwback shotgun skin,
and this one's actually dumb.
Bonus campaign level.
Oh, that's a shame.
Yes, that's fucking stupid.
Don't do that.
Yeah, that comes into the industry issues
with pre-order bonus.
I guess that's it then, or?
Someone said my uncle works at Bethesda.
He can ban you.
Becomes the rage of the new id.
If you didn't like this video,
then don't do either of those,
but if you did,
you can watch another one in the corner right now.
All right, and as is Efap tradition,
if he is in the chat
and does want to come on to talk about this
since we're done with video now,
I guess he's welcome to.
Well, let's have to wait for a response
because that'll be weird slash interesting.
But yeah, I don't know.
Is it unreasonable to have said
that he could have made a lot clearer arguments?
I still don't understand
what his criticism is.
It seems to be that there's too many elements
that are leading Doom
into a bombastic sort of future.
It looks too fun, therefore it's bad.
Too many yellow sausages.
Too many yellow sausages, yeah.
It's got the new fangled platform
and for the kids.
Fucking popcorn enemies.
Todd said sausages just work.
It wasn't like this in my day.
Couple people said he might have left.
I'm still waiting to see if he's.
Please let him come on.
It would be amazing.
Oh, he said.
Sure, I'll say hello.
All right.
Go on.
How do we do this?
How do we get anybody on these days?
Is it there?
I have to get him to join my discord first as I hope.
Yeah, join.
Okay, so cry more in the description for this video.
You'll find a link to my discord.
Use that and then at me in one of the channels
and then I'll be able to add you into this call.
Simple.
In the meantime, we can talk about alcohol.
What is your favorite alcohol drinker?
Well, right now I'm drinking Jack Daniels and coke.
It's what I tend to drink when I'm doing my videos and stuff
because the Jack will get you kind of drunk,
but the coke is going to keep you awake a little bit
with all the sugar and stuff.
So that's what I'm on right now.
But in the summertime, generally I like a good gin.
Gin's where it's at right now.
Anyone who is red pill knows.
I get it.
Knows.
Well, this has been a lot quicker than I expected.
Just adding him and then...
I like it when people have discord.
It makes everything so much easier.
Also, for the record, if you never had or have discord,
you're a bad person.
It's definitely the way forward.
Okay, I added him as a friendo.
Means I can add him.
Cool, now we're on.
Okay, fuck it.
And invite.
There we go.
Will also work.
I didn't use...
I just invited him to watch together.
I've seen just a lot of videos on gaming and stuff.
Like, I know nothing about his channel.
He's only got 4,000 subs, so...
I don't know if he's made a whole lot at all yet.
I could check.
Like, hello.
Good evening.
Hello, sir.
Wow, that was a lot of fun.
You might be like, wow, that's got to be unprecedented.
It happens all the time on this show, funnily enough.
It is the entire point of the show.
How do you do?
That was fun.
I've heard you want to say thank you for joining us for this chat.
Thank you for entertaining me.
That was fantastic to watch.
You're a big fan of Doom Eternal, I hear.
What do you feel about pull down some clubs and some sausages?
Oh, yeah, just sausage.
Man, you know, I love tea sausage, but that's about it.
That's a good kind of sausage.
Oh, boy, that was fun.
I should clarify, that's a video from QuakeCon.
That was the very first time anything had been shown about that game.
There's a lot of guesswork.
So, thinking about it now, like, what's your take on Doom Eternal?
Has it gone better away since then?
Oh, I don't know, man.
So, like, if you watch the E3 Bethesda show, right?
Like, it looks super arcadey to me.
But I did notice that the yellow poles are not poles anymore.
Oh, yeah?
What are they now?
They're like bone things, but they're still there.
Really, I don't know.
So, I feel like I have a whole lot of stuff that you guys said that I want to reply to all at once.
And the floor is yours, sir.
The pole is yours.
The sausage is yours.
You can do whatever you want with either one, just as long as it's painting for the rest of us.
So, I've had a lot of time to think about this video.
It's a 10-month, 11-month-old video.
And every single morning for the past 10 or 11 months,
I've woken up to a whole bunch of kill yourself comments, right?
So, like, I get a whole lot of hate for this video.
It is one of the most disliked videos, ratio-wise, on the platform.
It's almost worse than YouTube Premiere or YouTube Rewind.
So, like, it's pretty bad.
Like, it's pretty, pretty bad.
I've got a lot of hate for this video, and I've got a lot of time to think about it.
And I don't think that I explained my point correctly, but I don't think I'm wrong either.
It's not that I was trolling this.
Like, it's not that.
I think that the new Doom looks a little bit too arcadey.
I don't like the fact that they're slowing things down.
Like, the pole jumping and the wall climbing, they're not fast.
They're not speed.
They're slowing things down.
You've already got the double jump.
You've already got the dash.
You've already got all these movement things that make it fast.
Cool.
Those are just environmental things.
Everything else still looks just as fast as the last game.
Right.
And that's what I didn't really get across, is those are the things that I didn't like
because of that, because it makes it feel slower.
That's it.
It's only like a few seconds out of, like, what could be an eight plus hour experience.
How does it really matter?
Plus, like, you know, from the gameplay footage that we saw, it didn't look slow.
It points me to keep in mind, like, this is like E3 or QuakeCon coverage,
where the gameplay always looks a lot slower.
And it's built that way just to show off the things you can do.
Like, in an ideal world, what would you be looking for from Doom Eternal?
Bro, I don't even know.
Come on.
I have no idea.
Like, I enjoyed Doom 2016.
I don't know.
Give you an idea.
Like, if someone said one more out of Doom 2019, Doom Eternal, I'd be like,
I want the same thing I got in 2016, only maybe boost everything up a bit and add some new stuff
in and maybe develop the story.
Just keep it all going.
A nice, standard, good old sequel.
And if they go, oh, we've introduced something that allows you to essentially go from platform
levels one to two without doing jumps.
It's like that flip thing.
And then you can jump after it or before it and do dashes.
I'd be like, okay, I could see how you might be able to create some
neat environments through that.
And it's like, we've also got wall climbing.
I'd be like, how are they going to do it?
Okay, all right.
I could see that being cool depending on how they do it.
If worst case scenario, they only ever have it to climb up a wall and then move on.
And that's it.
It's like, it's like one or two walls and they never use it in any way that's like,
I don't know, it connects with something else or it bounces or something else.
I'd be like, well, that was disappointing.
It's only really practical for them to just use get through maps.
Whatever way.
But yeah, like all these things, I just want new stuff.
Develop the stuff, make everything that we already had, but better.
Doom, Doom 2016 was pretty solid.
Like there wasn't even much I would have changed about it.
I know I'm not necessarily in the majority there or I might be, I don't know.
But yeah, when someone's like, what do you look for in a sequel?
She's like, everything I had already, but better.
From a gameplay mechanics point of view, graphics, even story, whatever.
Doom 2016 pretty much delivered everything I was looking for.
And I would agree.
I don't think you need to add much to it.
I would agree.
I thought Doom 2016 was a great game.
I really did.
I thought it was a great game.
And I would like to see more of that.
If you were to say, hey, what do you want?
And I were to give you some thought.
Again, I mean, I just, I didn't even know you guys were talking about this until I started
getting a whole bunch of comments saying I've been Efap.
Oh, do you, do you have any idea who we are?
Like, I have no idea who you are.
I've never seen.
No problem.
We are a bunch of drunken assholes that talk about shit that doesn't matter to anyone.
Your videos have been sent along to us a few times and I finally decided to cover it.
I had no idea what it was going to be like going in, but it was an interesting idea that
do you think at all that Doom Eternal looks terrible was not the wisest of titles?
I don't know.
I mean, it got me on here.
So if you want to be on here, typically.
I don't know.
This is how I got on here in the first place.
That's actually true.
That is true.
Jay started as an enemy.
It was a fun video to make.
I enjoyed making it.
I knew it would piss some people off, of course.
I think there's some stuff that doesn't look great in the new Doom Eternal.
Would I call it terrible?
I don't think I'd use those words, but.
Well, you did.
You did already.
I'm not going to change it now.
You know, this is from QuakeCon.
We're not going to make another one today.
I'd probably make a video that says Doom Eternal still looks awful, but you know what?
I'd at least put a little bit more thought into it.
This was like, I don't know, a two hour long video at most, you know?
What else do you have any issues with what we said?
You know, you're welcome to tackle any of it.
I'm curious.
I didn't realize how many times I talked about the poll.
I would have sort of much more reasonable if there were more polls.
I just, it was not the only poll in the actual footage.
I think I was literally the only one in that whole demo.
There were two polls that I remember in the QuakeCon thing, but the other one was like,
really, really short.
So I couldn't use that footage.
And I just ended up having to go back to the same footage over and over again.
And I never realized until afterwards how many times.
Well, yeah, if there were more polls, I could have seen it,
but it seemed like you had, you have some kind of history with polls.
I don't know.
I don't remember it.
I don't remember it, apparently.
Do you think he looks like a sausage man?
Okay.
So like that one, I know I don't understand why people didn't get this, right?
He's so much bigger and it looks ridiculous.
His wrists are like bigger than his shoulders now.
You don't get that.
Like he's wearing power armor.
But it wasn't that big.
It wasn't that big in 2016.
If you look at 2016, it wasn't that big.
They're so big.
Yeah, but it's not like a sequel is going to make things a bit bigger and more extreme.
You know, that was just what people go for.
Yes, but that's why I said.
Does bigger necessarily mean that it's bad?
I mean, that depends entirely on the context.
But in this particular case, yes.
How?
It's just too big.
It's just it's too big.
Well, if you were wanting to change so demons to death, like would you want to be like a 90 pound
like, you know, runway model or would you want to be like the rock?
Yeah, I'm pretty sure I know which one I would choose.
He is bigger than the rock.
He's bigger than any he's so big.
And that's the thing I don't know.
Like I can only see his wrist, so maybe he just masturbates a lot.
Maybe he does.
Letter free time in hell, right?
Like, I don't know.
So when the quick con video came up, when it first came up on stage,
that was the first thing I saw.
And it was the first thing I thought about was, man, he's just so big.
And I didn't really think it was a good design change.
I understand that that, you know, with regards to character design,
they can basically do whatever the hell they want.
But it just doesn't appeal to me.
And that's really like I can't defend a whole lot of the stuff in this video
because it's a personal opinion.
I just didn't like certain things.
And and that's kind of the problem with it, I guess.
It's not a critical discussion of the history of Doom and why Doom Eternal, blah, blah, blah.
It's literally just I watched this thing on the Quake con.
I didn't like it.
Here's why.
So were you were you a big fan of Doom back in the day, like the original game?
I'm not that old.
I'm not that old.
But you would know.
Korea.
No, well, what's the other one?
I saw somebody in the chat say I was at the Battle of Northern aggression.
I'm not I'm not that old, man.
Yeah, it's Revolutionary War, of course.
What was trench warfare like?
Was George Washington really that?
Let me show you my signed book from Jesus.
For the German invasion of Poland.
I'm sorry.
What was the birth of the universe like?
Did you meet?
It was very pretty.
It was very pretty.
And she's a wonderful person.
Did you meet the cosmic chicken?
Did I make what?
He's not going to know that reference, Jay.
I know.
I just just had to say it came into my mind.
Beginning of the universe, the cosmic chicken.
They first discovered that they could get milk from rhinos.
What was that like?
From rhinos.
Well, you can.
They're really good for their eye.
Bad for anybody who's out of the loop.
Any of it.
I just I just feel bad.
Yes.
All of that made sense.
If you don't even understand it.
It made no sense to me, but it makes perfect sense to me.
After speaking to you just for a few minutes.
Oh, you don't want to let us retarded.
Well, you don't like excessive easy collectibles.
Is that is that.
The collective.
Bro, I just hate collectathons.
That's really it.
Like on as opposed to having collectibles.
Again, I didn't put a whole lot of critical thought into this video, man.
Like I expected it to get like a hundred views.
I didn't expect it to get 12,000 views.
And to a lot of people.
Well, this is the thing when I when I saw the title, I was like, whoa,
I got to see this then like terrible.
That's, you know, the waste I ever hear about it is kind of looks like the first one.
I'd be like, oh, good.
Yeah, yeah.
It it still looks bad to me, but it looks bad for different reasons.
It just looks arcadey.
I don't want that.
But, you know, that's what it is.
I'll probably still pick it up.
Like I'm not saying I wouldn't play it.
So anything else you want to talk to?
No, no, I'm happy to jump out now.
If you guys are done making fun of me.
I mean, we got two more videos to check out today, but, you know,
is there anything else you just want to say in general?
Because it's still up to you.
I see Rags is in this chat and I remember him so high.
Oh, he's he's away right now.
That's all I'll have to say.
All right.
Oh, well, nice to meet you, sir.
Thank you for having me.
Oh, buy a critical drink.
Buy that guy.
What a strange day.
Also, yeah, a lot of people were asking me to ask him the episode nine question.
I got several PMs about it.
Guys, they're for like guests.
That's the whole reason they're here.
We did not snowman gaming that question.
Did we all just right?
No, we wouldn't ask just right, actually.
But, you know, I think you lost connection.
Oh, drinker should hopefully be back in a bit.
We'll have to delay them.
Jay, talk about something really interesting.
Quick.
Do you admit you're gay now, right?
Yes.
Excellent.
I'm not if we celebrated the game.
So I'm I'm wondering, like, what proportion of people will think I'm being serious and
what proportion of people will think I'm aiming.
Well, I mean, people legitimately angry with you for saying that you wouldn't lick Trump's ass.
So I picked an amazing time to come back into this girl.
Sorry, I dropped out for a minute or so.
Um, it's all good.
Oh, God was licking Trump's ass.
So I'm fully involved.
Uh, so would you want to do that?
Well, if he told me it was tremendous and that was a very good person,
I'd be I'd be I'd be up for that.
Yeah, fair enough.
I could be talked into it.
So, you know, Trump has made some great investments in Scotland.
None of them have paid off.
But, you know, he's done it.
And that's the important thing, you know, he tried.
Well, oh, yeah, you're both from Scotland.
You guys should say hi.
I'm not from Scotland.
Yes, you are.
Are you from Scotland, though?
He's like a Scottish.
He's a Scottish abortion.
Talk about Scottish things.
Are you in Aberdeen?
You're not from there.
I live in Aberdeen.
I'm not there now or from there.
So yeah, you've got the taint of Aberdeen about you.
I can just I fucking drill for oil.
That's what everyone there does.
Yeah.
And you're you're not made of granite.
So, yeah, fair enough.
Yeah, I could be made of granite.
So culturally Scottish things that mean what are you?
Yeah.
Like Jay, like what do you feel about deep fried Mars bars in butter?
Oh, they're great.
Have you had one before?
I have had I've had a deep fried pizza as well.
They're amazing.
I used to have them every lunchtime at high school.
Deep fried Mars bar or pizza?
How can you do that every day?
I had to have a lie down after.
Well, you can do shit like that when you're a teenager, you know,
like when if you do it in my age,
I was 18 when I did that.
You're a liar.
You were never a teenager.
Jay's got very, very weak genes, weak DNA.
I'm eternally 11 years old.
Oh, God.
Back in back in high school, right?
That was that was our lunch times.
We'd go to the local chip shop and we'd have a deep fried
pizza and butter with chips, and then we'd go to my friend's house
and just play the shit out of Tomb Raider.
And that was it.
That was the 90s.
I thought you hated women.
What the fuck?
Sausage Raider, right?
You mean Sausage Raider.
Sausage Raider, yeah.
Oh, fuck.
Not even Nude Raider.
Sausage Raider.
Yeah, I like Sausage Raider.
Surely Sausage Raider would be one who raid Sausages.
I hope that someone, I'm like, Beowyn.
Oh, my God.
You're in the chat.
Beowyn, make Sausage Raider, please.
I just want to see a stop swinging from a tree, shooting like a AK at someone.
I did a video recently talking about the original Tomb Raider games versus the shit
that we have now, like the reboot trilogy.
The latest one was so fucking bad.
It almost caused me to pass out with fucking boredom.
I had to force myself to finish that game.
And that's coming from someone that actually liked the first Tomb Raider reboot
and Rise of the Tomb Raider.
It wasn't like the first one was supposed to be good.
The first reboot.
The first one was OK, even though nothing was really explained.
Rise of the Tomb Raider was a big old bag of bullshit and chips.
And then Shadow of the Tomb Raider was just boring as fuck, man.
Like, I couldn't get into it at all.
There was so little to do.
It seemed like most of the game was just running around collecting shit on the map.
There was only like two or three actual gun fights in the whole game.
There was loads of stuff to do, but it was pointless.
It was all fetch quests for NPCs that you don't give a shit about.
I like that Trinity just became like this weird tribal culture thing
halfway through the game for some reason.
You could tell they had no idea what the hell to do with that.
I mean, did you get to the end?
Did you get to the final battle?
Oh, where the guy turned into like some sun demon
and you had to like shoot him a bunch of times.
And then I had I had no fucking idea what I was.
Yeah, I genuinely I never understood the plot at any point in the entire game.
Like there was a flash flood at some point and she felt really bad about that.
And then yeah, I was I am honestly sick of this fucking version of Lara
where she's constantly apologizing for everything.
And she's just really sad about everything.
It's like a fucking hell.
Like you're you're a Tomb Raider.
You get to like travel the world and like raid these ancient tombs for like precious artifacts.
That's fun as fuck.
That's like 10 times more fun than any of us will ever have in our day jobs.
Like enjoy it.
That's what the original Lara Croft did.
She actually had fun with what she did.
It's crazy.
They had more time to make this game than they did with the last couple games,
but it feels like so so much smaller.
Yeah, they don't it doesn't go anywhere.
It doesn't do anything.
The maps are really boring.
The enemies are really boring.
How they didn't even really include like all the supernatural shit
they tried doing in the first couple of games.
Well, you know how with Tomb Raider used to be a real globetrotting kind of saga.
You'd go you go to lots of different locations all around the world.
And now with this one, it's like you're set in a fucking specific place,
whether it's freezing your fucking arse off in Siberia or you're in like,
you know, pi TT in fucking Central America or whatever.
And that's all you get is the same place throughout the whole game.
It's boring because there's no variation.
And you're stuck with these shitty fetch quests that make up 90% of the game.
My investment in the third game just went out the fucking window
when it turned out that the bad guys were like these weird
tribal people that like cut their lips off and screamed at you really loud.
And then it turned out they were the good guys for some reason.
They're the good guys, but we don't really know why.
And we're supposed to like like them now because they join our side against Trinity.
Fuck off.
There was a this glitch really early on in the game where they go to this village.
And it looked like a pre-rendered cut scene, but I guess it wasn't
because the chick that Laura and what's as fuck we're talking to
was like sitting through the table, like not on the other side of the table.
She was I wish I had the video clip on it, but I don't.
I was originally planning on making a review of it.
And I just I did really didn't want to play it some more to do that.
But she was like through the table, clipping through the table.
And it showed like a side shot of the three talking to each other.
And I was just losing my shit the whole time.
Yeah.
Did you like the fact that you could also dress Laura as if she was in Tomb Raider 2
or whatever, and you could actually have that in the cut scenes.
It puts them in a whole different light.
Trust me.
I didn't really experiment too much with it.
Like after the first three hours there, I said it.
After the first three hours, I was just playing the game to finish it.
I didn't want to play it for fun at all at that point.
Yeah, I don't know.
Like if this is meant to be leading into the the original Tomb Raider game,
are they going to remake that?
As far as I'm aware, these were supposed to be like an origin story trilogy
for the first for all the rest of the games.
Yeah, it fell flat on its face.
Real hard.
My criticism of it was like, okay, I get in the first one.
She's scared and she's out of her depth and she doesn't know what she's doing.
Fine.
That's her very first exposure to this.
You get to the second one and she's still like that.
And then you get to the third one.
She's still fucking like that.
She's never advanced as a character.
She's never changed.
And that's the whole point.
She's meant to like advance towards like being
the Lara Croft that we remember from the original games.
You know, this is search.
This is her experience.
This is what gets her to where she needs to be.
There is like this part in the third game where she was like crying over
like slaughtering a bunch of these people.
And it's like it took you three games to get to this point.
Yeah, like that should have happened in the first game and then gotten over it in the second.
That's what you do, though.
Yeah, you do end up like killing.
And probably dozens of people and you're apologizing for it the whole way.
It's the most like brilliantly ridiculous kind of combination of character elements that I've ever seen.
Yeah, so anyway, you guys want to watch the video?
No, I want to run about fucking Tomb Raider or some more.
This one's been requested all over the place.
It's a guy who's made a couple of controversial videos,
and yet people say that he does make some good stuff.
So it'll be interesting to see.
It's called how to redeem a broken hero.
And the thumbnail says Luke Skywalker is how to do it correctly in TLJ
and Thor in Endgame is how to do it incorrectly.
I feel like we all need to hold hands for this one.
Yeah, this is the kind of thing we like.
Okay, all right.
We'll hold hands and Jay can stand off to the side.
No, you know, I'm going to go into this with an open mind.
Yeah, this could be a great video.
I've not actually seen it and this is a topic that all four of us are able to comment on completely.
So is everyone ready?
Here we go.
Let's do it.
If you watch literally any video on my channel before,
you probably have a good understanding of my star wars like this guy.
It might be a good video.
It's not going to wait.
Is this on watch together?
Yes.
Yeah, that's weird.
That's sad.
I hate it when someone I like says something stupid.
Well, we don't know how he's argued it yet.
Give him a title of the video.
Can you can you like bring the link up?
You fucking you can just scroll up.
I was on watch together already and it wasn't appearing.
You like you like technologically deficient.
Probably stupid.
This guy is drunk.
This same guy made a how to subvert expectations correctly video.
And he talked about how infinity war did it better than the last Jedi.
And that was like one of the first videos I saw from him.
And that's what convinced me.
Oh, hey, he's good.
But now he's like killing that already.
Heard the redeemer broken hero.
Fuck.
All right.
Look, we can do this.
We can.
Okay, if you watch any video on my channel before you probably have a good understanding
of my opinion towards Star Wars episode eight.
The last Jedi.
I don't like it.
On the other hand, you know, the Avengers now I like the Avengers.
I don't know if you could tell that from my previous videos, but yeah.
So knowing these two things, I bet you took a look at that thumbnail and said,
shape, you idiot.
You mixed up the symbols on the thumbnail.
It's supposed to be last Jedi bad end game.
Good.
And to that I say, oh, prepare to get your expectations subverted so hard.
Also spoilers.
End game is a really good finale and a great send off for Tony Stark and Steve Rogers.
But today I'd like to talk about the most divisive character in the movie.
The person who split audiences on whether or not they treated the character with any dignity
or respect.
This character, of course, is call obsidian.
People weren't too happy when Ant-Man stepped on him and completely disposed of him in such an
It was bad that I haven't said anything yet, but I mean, I agree with you.
Yeah, carry on.
Thumbs up.
How do we feel?
He did a bait and switch.
He's got to stretch it out to 10 minutes.
Personally, I think it's a step up in the last movie where Bruce Banner sent
him flying into the gungan force field.
So honestly, I'm okay with our role of his videos.
10 minutes.
I have no idea.
Okay.
I'm going to check.
I doubt it.
All obsidian's role in this movie is a cool death.
So why not?
Good reference.
Oh, why foods are Queens except Oh, Hoya.
When the hell is chef going to do the mega mind?
Funny.
Fuck off.
That took a lot less time than I expected.
I guess while I'm here, I can talk about the second most divisive character in the movie.
Thor has had a rough time in these past few films after losing everyone he loves
getting his chance to avenge them and completely blowing it.
I don't blame him for falling into an alcoholic stupor and drowning his sorrows
by playing Fortnite with Korg.
That's probably what I would do if I were him minus the Fortnite.
I will play literally any other game with Korg, but a reality where people still
play Fortnite in 2023 is scarier than any Thanos.
No, fuck off.
It's not 2023.
Is it not actually bringing up the current date?
I thought it was five years later.
The Avengers have fallen behind our current timeline,
so they had to give that five year gap to actually bring it up to 2019.
I'm pretty sure it is 2023.
Yeah, because they actually have the same date for when the first Avengers came out
when they go back in time to that scene at the end of the movie.
Yeah, so it's still dated as 2012, but we've moved forward quite rapidly from there,
but the Avengers movies haven't done that with their timelines.
They said that Guardians 1 was in 2014,
so unless literally everything else from Guardians 1 onwards happened in 2014 as well, then-
Yeah, I'm pretty sure the timelines are accurate.
I'm pretty sure.
To our world.
I mean, I think Endgame is 20, as in Infinity War was our time,
and then Endgame is five years on from then.
Really?
I think so.
I haven't got-
Pretty certain, yeah.
No, they say it.
They say it explicitly.
There's a scene where the more is like,
oh, this nebula is from however far in the future,
and we know that happens in 2014, so we have the exact date.
And I remember that I looked it up for a video, and it was 2023 that the future happens.
All right, I'll just shut the fuck up then.
Speaking of Thanos, I think this team where Thor has a breakdown at the mere
mention of Thanos' name is fantastic.
It's kind of haunting, actually.
Just how broken he's become and how-
No, it isn't.
Do you want to develop that?
No, I am.
No, I am going to qualify that with some kind of explanation.
Of everything that Thor has been through,
witnessing the entire destruction of his home planet,
witnessing his mother getting killed, witnessing his father dying in front of him,
is this thing going to be the thing that puts him over the edge
that's going to turn him into a useless, drunken, panic-attack-laden asshole?
I'm happy with it, dude.
Really happy the universe did just get new, so-
The thing is, on a personal-
Yeah, I would be all right with that.
Like, that's me.
Like, I could-
No, that's not Thor.
No, but it's like he came in, and he almost killed Thanos.
He rammed him through the chest with his axe,
almost killed him, and his one and only thing was like,
well, he didn't quite stop him from flicking his hands and annihilating half the universe.
No one else even came close.
Thor almost did it, but he didn't quite make it,
and that's going to be the thing that drives him into a pit of despair and uselessness.
I mean, he failed to stop the end of the universe because-
So did everyone.
So did everyone.
Cap never had a chance in the first place.
Neither did the most of the heroes.
You could argue that Iron Man-
Thor was really the only hero that had a chance.
Yeah, the group on Titan technically kind of did,
which is why it's on Peter that he fucked up,
but that's another thing that doesn't really get addressed.
Like, Peter doesn't really have regrets for that
because of the way that the structure works.
But Thor feeling like Thanos is a rough name to hear
because of the fact that that man represents Thor's failure to save half of the universe.
I think there's something there.
I think it's pretty tenuous.
Like, I feel like everyone is equally culpable for this one.
They all had a hand in this.
They all had a chance to try and stop Thanos.
I think that's addressed in the film,
and everybody feels they've got the survivor's guilt thing.
Everyone feels rough about having made it, and they couldn't stop him.
I'm okay with this.
Like, I get the-
My issue is different, I guess, with the whole-
When I saw him playing Fortnite and he was really fat, I was like,
ooh, I'd rather take this seriously.
I hope they don't play this up for too many jokes,
and then they just pile on the jokes.
I was like, oh no.
It was a joke for, like, the whole entire movie and then-
I really care about Thor.
Yeah, it's when he gets to Asgard,
and he's having a fucking panic attack,
because he's got to speak to Jane.
Yeah, I didn't really enjoy that.
Were any of you guys watching that and thinking,
yeah, that's really consistent with his character?
No.
Not with what I've seen, no.
But I'm willing to accept that he finds it rough to bring up Thanos.
Maybe not to the degree you see in that scene,
but I mean, yeah, I'm okay with this.
Going to-
Anything else before we-
Okay.
All right, then.
I thought the story arc-
What?
He was a laugh the whole entire movie.
They didn't play him for laughs, no.
I don't think they did any-
Literally every fucking scene he's in.
I think he's dead.
Cheese was-
The Cheese was one really bothers me.
I'm looking forward to talking about that in a video sometime.
There's the one where he was asleep in the chair,
and Don Cheadle was like, I think he's dead.
Yeah.
I got a laugh out of me, but it's still-
I know.
Yeah, I mean, I laughed at that too,
but it was like, you guys got to stop playing this joke.
It's the whole movie.
I know there's an inherent element of irony of me
making fun of a guy who's an alcoholic dickhead,
but that is too much.
You can deal with someone who's got a serious guilt complex
about failing to do something or failing to help people.
You don't have to turn it into that,
where he's just flat and he plays video games all day.
I liked that he was fat.
If they played it seriously,
he's like, oh, he's really let himself go.
It would have been really cool.
I'm fine with the fat part.
It's more with the jokes part.
It's the jokes part.
Yeah.
So you have to look up the fat man.
It was really nice.
Then I thought about it and I realized-
Wait a minute.
There's no payoff.
Thor never has a heroic moment that redeems his failure in the previous movie.
He was regarded by the Russos as the would-be main hero of Infinity War
if he had stopped the snap.
And he didn't.
And killing Thanos after the fact didn't redeem his failure either.
Thor is drowning in failure throughout all of Endgame,
but there's no sacrifice or dramatic confrontation
that pays off any of the self-pity that we see in this movie.
He never has a moment that solidifies himself as a true hero.
Which is-
So, I disagree.
Literally every-
Oh shit.
Yeah, like he has his moment with Tony and, you know,
like they go up against Thanos again.
So yeah, so I guess almost rant time.
So like the-
I actually adore the scene with his mum because it's-
You know what the design of that scene is.
It's specifically to tell us what's happening to Thor.
So all of Thor's trilogy is about him becoming the leader he was always meant to be.
The leader he was born to be.
And Infinity War is his ultimate test as that leader.
He's essentially the leader of the universe at that point.
The protector of the universe.
He has to defeat the one guy who's going to destroy the universe.
He fails.
And then in this movie, he's told,
you're not that guy.
You don't have to be that guy because everyone says you're that guy.
Be who you are and who he is.
But is that really the character arc that he wants to go on?
Is that the character arc that we want him to go on?
Well, that's the thing.
You don't have to take him one specific direction, right?
Like I wanted leader Thor, I think.
I'd happily say that I'm really happy with his trilogy being about becoming a good leader
and then leading Asgard and potentially Earth, whatever.
But the idea that the problem with Thor, I think, as well,
is because we have to acknowledge that Thor Ragnarok essentially
reckons his personality to a very significant degree.
I know a lot of people disagree with that.
If you just compare him and Thor one, he's a completely different fucking character.
I get the journey that he goes on.
Like in Thor one, he's like super arrogant and he's
not talking about arrogance, the way that he talks and his understanding of humor.
Like they're completely the Ragnarok is more Chris Hemsworth than he is Thor.
And that's fine with me because I fucking love Chris Hemsworth.
Yeah, but you can apply that to like, you know, he's been with the Avengers.
He understands a little bit of like Earthbound humor.
He's absorbed some of that in his experience.
You don't see him changing.
He's just like it's just like it clicks between films.
Like literally the opening of Ragnarok where he says,
I know what you're thinking.
Oh, no, Thor's in a cage.
Oh, I was immediately like, okay, Thor's acting a bit weird.
But I loved it because I was entertained as fuck.
I love that character way more than I love the Thor from Thor one to Age of Ultron and Avengers.
It's weird.
I never took that as being like really out of character for Thor.
Well, I always thought he was quite self-referential.
What's your take, Wolf?
Oh, I don't like any of the Thor movies.
So I know just about his character.
Well, yeah, I mean, I think we had this discussion when we were going on about the
we were making that list of the objective and subjective takes for all the Marvel movies.
If he's just not the same person, I'm OK with it because Thor one and two are just
magically terrible films. And even though I don't like
magically terrible.
Well, yeah, of course it is.
And even though I don't like Ragnarok, I mean, I prefer that Thor to the previous
iterations of him way more, but he is a different character completely.
He's way more stoic and boring, honestly.
Like, would you put any of that down to like his exposure to humans
and like the things he's done with the Avengers?
I couldn't see that if we had more development.
I was going to say, what scenes would you cite that, like, explore that?
Like, it's already every time someone's like, you need to cut loose, Thor.
You're like too uptight.
No, but like, I don't I don't know if you get that from a character or if they just
take what they see around them as like, you know, that's.
You know, that's the style of humor.
That's the kind of like people that I'm around.
And you don't know what he's going to be doing between movies.
Like, maybe he's absorbed a lot of Earthbound culture while he's been like,
you know, on hiatus between films.
You don't kind of know, I guess.
Yeah, but if they do it off screen, it's still just a big retcon.
It's a retcon, but it's a retcon in the sense that you can buy into it to some extent.
Because it's like, well, I can get where he's been.
I can get what he's been up to.
There's small breadcrumbs.
Like, one of my favorite lines from Thor is in Age of Ultron, where they keep passively
aggressively explaining their girlfriend's jobs, him and Tony.
Yeah, yeah.
Like one Tony is explained something that's almost.
But Jane is better.
Yeah, he just says that.
And it's just like, that's that's totally in line with how we see him in Ragnarok.
But he's really, really like that.
Go ahead, Wolf, what are you saying?
I was going to say there was that one line from the first Avengers where
he said, I don't remember exactly what he said at first about Loki.
And then someone was like, Loki's destroyed this, this and this.
And he was like, he's adopted.
Yeah.
But then you have the whole like, Loki, you come home.
And then in the new ones, he talks way more like just a casual human being sort of thing.
This is that you watch him back to back.
It's interesting.
Yeah, that I would forgive because that's the whole thing about his character.
Like he's, you know, when it starts off with the first Thor movie, he's very pompous and
he's very like over the top, like dramatic, you know, I shall not do this kind of thing.
But then the more exposure he has to people like Tony or, you know, anyone else from
the Avengers, the more he adopts like human styles of speaking.
You know, there's just the kind of casual way that we go about things, the style of our humor.
I don't know if there's any times in the movies where that's a thing,
like I would love that that was a thing, but I don't think that that happens.
I think you just sort of filling in the blank.
Yeah, I think maybe you infer a little bit, but it kind of makes sense.
From the kind of journey that his character has been on, the kind of people that he's
been exposed to, it probably makes sense that he would absorb that a little bit.
Maybe I'm reaching a little bit on this one.
Well, what you're describing is what I kind of would have wanted.
And that's my issue is that there's no gap filler between Thor.
Well, Age of Ultron and Ragnarok.
I mean, I can't have been the only one when watching Ragnarok.
I'm guessing you really weren't, but I was just like, wow, this is a new Thor.
And I really like this Thor, because I've always found it to be kind of a little bland.
And this, you know, yeah, yeah, I think for me, like, yeah, I was very much the same.
I was like, I've got very little expectations of the Thor movies.
So when it comes to like this third one, I'll cut it a bit of slack.
And I'll accept that there's been a bit of a personality change
because of all the things he's been through between movies.
I just wanted to highlight a super chat that said,
well, you're objectively wrong about the Thor moment scene.
This will always be your worst take.
They had mommy make him a soy cuck instead of Odin coming back and making him based.
That was Ra.
Ra has a lot of interesting takes.
Yeah, so I just like the idea that the trilogy is all about building him up to be this thing.
And then he realizes that it's not even necessarily the thing he wanted.
It's just something that he was supposed to do this whole time.
You must see that yourself, though.
Well, the thing is, I think that there's movies in the trilogy.
There's lots of, like I said, I would have been on board with making him that leader.
For the record, I do not like that he just palms off Asgard to Valkyrie.
Like this, you need a whole movie for that.
You can't just go, well, cool.
I'm going with the guardians.
Like, really, it wasn't exactly very responsible person or the people.
Like there was no other character to give it to.
No, I don't.
There's the first time we see her, she like falls off of her shit because she's drunk off her ass.
It's like, is that really the kind of person you're eating?
Yes, I approve of this.
Prove of this.
You have a bias, you can't.
Her whole arc in that movie, though, was that she was only like that
because she was defeated by Hela.
And then in the end, she takes on Hela.
Doesn't win anyway, but we're told she hasn't really earned that responsibility.
No, well, they show her interacting and moving along with the village of people
or whatever when we first see the new Asgard.
And it's like, see, she's the person now.
And it's like, yeah, we need more than that.
Not really at all.
What have you proven as well?
You can organize a fucking fishing village off the east coast of Scotland.
Like, I could probably do that.
And I'm a total asshole.
It would have been better if they had like, if they had a fucking just
completely new character who was there like, oh, so what should I do?
And he's like, make your decisions.
And he's got a dick to him for the for the time being.
And then at the end, it's like a real moment of you've actually run this place pretty well,
haven't you?
Do you not think it's a bit shit, though, like Asgard, like Asgard, this fucking
like galaxy spanning species, almost, of people that like keeping the whole like,
you know, galaxy in order.
They've suddenly been reduced to this like little fishing village in some asshole end of nowhere.
I don't think that's entirely ending because the Thor movies have always been extremely limited
on how what what Asgard is, how people get powerful there.
Like, is it just the bloodline or is it the people as well?
Do they spread more than just the area of Asgard?
How do they control these realms outside of just sending Thor to them every time someone revolts?
Yeah, it's all very and this is the thing.
It's like the Thor films are just not very good.
Like the will building that was horrendous.
But the idea that Asgard is now reduced to a village is just like, okay,
and Valkyrie is now going to organize it while he plays around with the Guardians.
Like, okay.
Yeah, it's meaningless, ultimately, because it's like, well,
what are you in charge of a village on the east coast of Scotland?
It was Norway, wasn't it?
Was it?
I don't remember.
It is actually it is actually on the east coast of Scotland,
because I've fucking been to that village myself.
And it's it's a dump.
And yet no, because someone said but their army got wiped out in Ragnarok again.
No, that's almost the disappointing part.
That Asgard was just that selection of soldiers that
Ella destroyed.
And then they were just those villages on that ship and then half of them got killed.
And then they went to a village in Scotland and that's Asgard now.
And then but then did half of them get killed when Thanos snapped his hands as well.
Oh, yeah, true.
So like, yeah, they've been doubly fucked over.
Well, they got brought back by the end of any games is fine.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Sorry.
The point of this was is he I don't even remember.
We'll draw it back.
It was like at least a bottle of Jack ago.
Yeah.
Killing Thanos after the fact didn't redeem this failure either.
Thor is drowning in failure throughout all of Endgame,
but there's no sacrifice or dramatic confrontation that pays off any of the self-pity that we see in
this movie.
You know, I don't know if I agree with that, though, because like, wouldn't does the fact
that he fights alongside its heroes against Thanos not count as they want something more specific?
This three moments is like the fucking the conversation with his mother.
Then there's the I'm still worthy.
And then there's him actually taking on that.
The thing is, like, does there need to be a sacrifice?
Well, that's I'm kind of curious what this guy's after.
I think he needs to sacrifice his body fat.
Don't we all?
Don't we all?
Yeah.
Is he after like a specific moment with him versus Thanos where he does something specific
outside of killing him?
I'm guessing I don't know if you is that what he wanted?
But ultimately, the thing with Thor was always like, you know, he tested his metal against
Thanos and it wasn't enough.
You know, he he went through all this to forge a new axe and to get this weapon that was going
to kill Thanos.
And then he comes in at the last moment to save the day and it wasn't enough to stop him.
And that that was his that was his arc.
Like he everything he did up until that point just wasn't quite enough.
But then that's not a sacrifice.
That's just like a person testing themselves against their enemy and not being up to the
challenge.
And he works with everybody to defeat him.
And then they invent a time machine in the space of like two days.
So easy.
All right.
Well, let's see what else he says because I'm kind of I'm not sure I agree with just
the premise after the fact didn't redeem this failure either.
Thor is drowning in failure throughout all of Endgame, but there's no sacrifice or dramatic
confrontation that pays off any of the self pity that we see in this movie.
He never has a moment.
This isn't the point, by the way, that he can't do the sacrifice because like Iron Man highlights
like you're too out of your mind.
You're too ruined by this whole experience.
You're not ready.
Like this is dangerous for you to do it.
Like he fights along with them.
But like there is I don't think Tony ever said.
Well, it is an implication.
He just says like, you know, he says something.
Hey, you're a genius.
What did he say?
Oh, what was what was the thing with Thor suggests himself to do the snap and Iron Man
says what does I say is the reason why you shouldn't.
Oh, I don't know that.
It's because the plots decided that it's not time for him to like intervene and do
the shit that he needs to do.
Well, I just figured this is an important thing to get across with like the plot of
Endgame.
Like it plays with what people are capable of doing and it artificially reduces what
people can do in order to service the plot of the the overall story.
I don't disagree with them.
There's a lot of sort of power levels being altered to make things happen.
Like Thanos is super OP in that film to allow, you know, like Cap with Mjolnir
with Thor with a fully powered next generation.
Iron Man probably there.
Those three probably should have annihilated him, especially when he doesn't have the
stones.
But they don't.
Yeah, but can I just like desperate though?
And is it to do with the fact that he's scatterbrained and the concern that he
won't be able to do the job?
I don't know.
I can't remember the line, honestly.
Can I just bring up a thing as well?
Like, I don't know if we're going to talk about this later, but like the whole thing
about Thanos, like not even having a fucking clue what's going on until Nebula spazzes
out right in front of him and starts playing a really incriminating piece of like footage
that says like, this is the fucking thing that we're going to do that's going to totally
undo everything that Thanos is planning.
Yeah, man, that's peaceful, right?
That tells him everything that's going on.
Like, I don't know if it's just me, but like if an entire storyline hinges on just like
a chance encounter like that, it's fucking shit writing.
I agree.
You agree, Jay?
Unless that chance encounter is the inciting incident, then yes.
Yeah, no, there's totally elements that work that way.
Like, if that hadn't happened, like if Nebula hadn't like spazzed out right then
and played that really like, you know, this is the stones that we're going to recover
from this point in time in order to stop Thanos.
If she hadn't played that right in front of him, he would have had no fucking clue what
was going on.
It doesn't stop there.
You know, when she's like Thanos knows and then she goes into a ship and Thanos starts
sucking her into his ship is the he she covered it.
It was like, why don't you just use your time thing to escape now?
What are you doing, Nebula?
Why are you letting them suck you and then they take your time tisms and it's like, Nebula,
what are you doing?
Yeah.
Also, if it wasn't for that,
the entire plot of the the end of the movie wouldn't have fucking happened.
And the Avengers like plan would have gone off without a hitch.
That would have been it.
So it's sort of like the more you like that games like I do.
I love that game.
Doesn't mean it's full of problems, like a lot of problems.
It's full of like so many fucking problems.
Way more than Infinity War.
Yeah, the fact that like Thanos's entire like worldview just shifts completely based on
the fact that like, you know, five people were fighting against it.
You mean like he wants to kill everything and restart.
Yeah, in Infinity War.
It was like, well, I, you know, I can get behind what he's saying.
He's like, you know, life has become this this plague upon the universe is consuming
all the resources.
There's not enough to sustain it.
OK, fine.
You want to you want to reduce it by half fine.
It's only going to postpone it by like 20 or 30 years, but whatever you want to do.
But now it's like, you know, you guys have fought against me and I've completely changed
my point of view and I'm going to destroy the entire universe right back to the last
item and I'm going to remake it in my image.
That's fucking crap.
Yeah, you've just like shifted his entire worldview based on this one.
Honestly, when I first saw this and I was like, oh, is this the filmmakers trying to
tell us like, no, he wasn't crazy crazy all the time.
It wasn't that he had like an altruistic view.
It was just he was kind of insane.
It only looked slightly altruistic.
No, it's because they've run out of fucking ideas.
Well, that's kind of what I'm getting at is that they were like, he's crazy, guys.
He's crazy.
And you're like, I felt like he was doing it.
You have to hate him.
I felt like he was still believed he was being altruistic.
He was going to make a better universe that people would be happy in.
But it's still like recognize himself like I'm taking away everything that's good in
this universe.
Every every person that would say every every nice person, every person that strive to do
something better for their species or whatever doesn't matter.
I'm going to annihilate them all.
I'm going to take it right back to the last like atom of the universe.
I'm going to remake it so that everyone is dumb and compliant and they've got no idea
what happened before and they just worship me or whatever.
He would say it as taking all the bad out of the universe.
That would be his takeaway from that.
But he like Thanos Thanos and Infinity War wouldn't have done that.
Thanos and Infinity War would have recognized that there was something inherent.
A lot of people do argue that they're different characters, which is part of the problem,
by the way, that they fight what is essentially a different Thanos, which feels
wrong.
Like you don't get your satisfaction.
People that say that can get fucked.
Do you not agree that they look so they are kind of different characters that I'm saying
that almost as criticism.
No, they are fundamentally the same person.
You know, OK, they come on of course in their their personal history.
But yeah, but they don't have the same like in like the same attachment to the characters
as all the things that made Thanos who he was at Infinity War.
He's still been exposed to an end game.
But he didn't kill Gamora or the Avengers at all.
No, but the loss of his home planet that like the understanding that like, you know,
life has to be constrained to some extent, like from the basis of his home planet,
his experiences, all of that he's been through in end game.
Well, yeah, I mean, his only difference, the only difference is is killing Gamora.
Well, that meeting the other Avengers.
And I have to highlight to you, that is pretty significant.
He's he's already admitted he like this, like the one person he loves.
It is, but he was going to do that regardless.
No, he didn't know he was going to happen until he got to Vormir.
But he would have been willing to do it no matter what.
That's I mean, I put it here like he would he would have he would have understood that,
like for the rest of that.
That hasn't been the character yet because he hasn't experienced it yet.
I was going to say there's a lot of things he said, but like he felt like there's a lot
of things I'm willing to do right for the greater good.
But I haven't done a lot of them.
And if I was forced to do them, they probably would change me.
Do you know what I mean by that?
Like there's a lot of things all of us might do in really, really crazy situations,
but they would change us.
I'm trying to think of like, I'll just go with a simple one bus full of children,
bus full of other children.
You have to drop one of them.
Yeah, that's going to change you.
No, I think like when you balance out everything Thanos has done on like a galactic scale,
like as much as he's got a personal attachment to Gamora,
that's not going to change his fundamental personality.
He was who he was before he killed Gamora to who he was afterwards.
I don't I don't think he fundamentally changed from that moment.
That decision that he had to make, he made it well before he was on Vermeer.
But I mean, look at the moments he had in Infinity War killing.
Like when he throws her off the cliff, there's that shot that shows his reaction to doing it.
Like he's he did it.
And then I don't know.
I don't think it was shock.
I think he was he was genuinely regretful.
I think he knew it was going to happen.
Sure.
And I think he was unhappy.
Like he was sad.
He was quite you realize like before knowing he had to do that.
And after doing that, that changes you.
Like he I agree completely that he would have still done it.
But the fact that he hadn't done it in the end game timeline
makes him different from the Infinity War timeline.
I don't I don't think it changed him.
I think it's a symptom of who he was.
I think he he whatever version of Thanos you want to come up with.
He always recognized that I have to sacrifice things that are important to me on a personal level
in order to service the great good.
I agree.
It's always like no matter who it is.
Seemed to be something something of a surprise to him.
Like when he's when he talks to Gamora in the in the soul stone,
wherever the hell it is, when she says, what did it cost?
And he says everything like he didn't necessarily.
I never took it as a surprise.
I took it as inevitability.
I don't know.
I just got the impression that I agree with it.
I took it as like I I kind of knew this was always going to come.
Maybe that but maybe that it wasn't expecting.
It was a hard fucking price that I had to pay.
Yeah, I was willing to do it because it serviced the greater good.
It was serviced my my ultimate goal.
I agree.
I'm saying like that was the thing that made him such an interesting character
was that he was willing to pay that personal price.
He was willing to do that thing in order to to ultimately better everyone in his mind.
But that's what took him from being a really interesting,
morally ambiguous character in end in sorry, infinity war to kind of a simplistic character
in end game where he was like, you guys have resisted me.
I don't care about anything anymore.
I'm just yeah, I'm willing to like, I'm gonna destroy the entire universe basically.
What I'm saying about that Gamora scene is just that he always knew he was going to do it.
He just didn't exactly know how it was going to feel.
Yeah, I mean, you think of like a family member dying and it's like you're trying
to prepare yourself for the moment, but it doesn't really prepare you in full.
Like the impact doesn't hit you until the event happens.
That would be right for us.
We would we would experience that.
But I wouldn't be different for Thanos though,
because I think for Thanos, he balances things on a bigger scale.
He understands the bigger picture for those we wouldn't even Thanos
couldn't prepare himself for what it was going to be like to do what he did.
Like even he felt I think he knew what he had to do.
I think he knew what it was going to cost.
He paid that price willingly, but he didn't do it gladly.
You know, I'm not saying that you would have undone it in any way, shape or form,
but I think that it's tough for him to live with it and that's all.
But this isn't me trying to say, therefore, it makes sense that he is who he is in end game.
I still think who he is in end game is too far away from who he is in Infinity War.
He's a bit too.
He's almost one dimensional in an end game, which is a shame.
Yeah, yeah, I agree.
And I think that's that's mainly what we were we were discussing,
because this is the thing I think all four of us probably agree.
Thanos is pretty awesome in Infinity War as a character.
And 100% in end game is a little bit like, oh, yes,
he's back, and then you're like, oh, it's not really Thanos, though.
This other is his other dude.
Yeah, it's a simplified version of Thanos, his beliefs.
And it almost feels like they did it to make it easier for us to just see him get deleted, you know.
Yeah, it would have been so much cooler to see as well a version of Thanos,
because, like, maybe killing him or didn't change him.
But having done the snap would totally have changed him.
So seeing more of that would have been really, yeah, I would have loved to have talked to
Thanos for three hours after Infinity War happened.
It's been like, so how do you feel, dude?
What do you think about everything you've done?
What do you think about these?
I think I think the movie finished it very well, though.
Oh, yeah, you get to see you get to see him.
He's a he's a kind of fulfilled man.
He's done his thing that he intended to do all this time.
And he's at peace with himself.
He's at peace with the world that he's created.
And he understands all the things that he's done.
It's not perfect, but like it for a villain in a superhero movie,
fucking hell, that was a brilliant piece of writing.
I almost feel sorry for him when he's just peacefully making breakfast and then.
Yeah, it's a meat fee breakfast as well.
Like, you know, there's no there's no he's a vegan.
Yeah, he's a vegan from his perspective.
That would just be the almost the ultimate fucking kick in the balls.
He's like, they're not appreciating it.
Yeah, I was like, I've helped you guys out.
Come on.
I snapped at a good two or three times to make sure the Avengers were all dead first.
Yeah, he should have killed them specifically.
He promised to spare Iron Man and he did.
Like, who else was to spare?
There were a few people.
I have a question for you guys, actually.
Like, you know, what was your take on the whole idea that like, you know, he's okay.
He's half the number of living creatures in the universe.
Like the human population has doubled probably in my lifetime here on Earth.
So what was it?
What is he ultimately accomplished?
Like, he's delayed the inevitable by like two or three decades.
Yeah, we don't get reasoning beyond that.
That's the problem with the movie.
If I was writing it, and I was aware of that issue, I would have I've said this
before, and he said, I think I would have had him say something along the lines of
this won't be forgotten.
People will know that if they if they essentially cap out their population,
they need to control themselves.
They need to appreciate life, that sort of mentality, as if to say,
it's almost like I'll be I'll be watching now.
Yeah, yes, even that that would be great, too.
But yeah, as it stands, it's kind of like, as you do realize, people will have sex again.
They can't they can't have him say he'll do it again, because this immediate thing
that he does after his destroy stones.
Oh, shit, I forgot about.
Which is why I go with the whole remember thing.
They'll know why this happened.
That's that's the thing I've always wondered about.
Like, you know, obviously, he's he's had all this, you know, this stuff happened to him.
Like his his arm is completely destroyed from from the power of what he's unleashed.
Is it because he's destroyed the stones while he did his final maneuver,
but he wiped out 50 percent of life in the universe?
Like, if he hadn't done that, would it have been okay?
Yeah, what do you mean?
Well, you know, like when they they run into him on his on his retirement planet,
and he's obviously weakened.
He's very severely injured by what he's gone through.
And he explains to them that he used the power of the stones to destroy the infinity stones
while he did his final act, you know, destroying snap.
A second snap.
Yeah, they're like, oh, the the energy sign that popped up with the first
snap has just popped up again on this other planet.
And that's how. Oh, so like he actually like did it twice.
Yeah, the second second, you wait half the life in the universe
and then he destroyed the infinity stones.
Yeah.
Two separate things.
Yes.
Okay, cool.
I'll buy into that for what it's worth, I guess.
Anyway, I feel bad for this person's video.
Let's go back to it.
It's all right.
It's all right.
There's a video here.
Yes, after the fact, didn't redeem this failure either.
Thor is drowning in failure throughout all of Endgame, but there's no sacrifice or
dramatic confrontation that pays off any of the self-pity that we see in this movie.
He never has a moment that solidifies himself as a true hero, which is weird when you see.
I can't agree with that solidifies himself as a true hero.
Isn't that very goes up against when he goes up against Thanos with like Tony and Cap.
That's the hero moment.
I was totally into it in that moment when those together again.
The payoff is in realizing he doesn't have to be a hero to be a good.
He doesn't have to be the leader, the guy who beat Thanos.
He just has to fight.
The payoff is that it's like clear as day.
It's like fucking flagged up like, look at this as a payoff when he's saying
it's time for me to be who I am rather than who I'm supposed to be.
That's the payoff.
The Mjolnir thing.
So it's like, I failed.
I'm not the guy.
I'm not the guy, let's put it that way.
But then Mjolnir is like, no, you're still the guy.
And Phil's like, I'm still the guy.
Didn't we talk about this already?
Well, yeah, I just.
All right.
I don't think we need to do it again.
Have we not done this in like three other Thor movies?
I don't disagree with that.
He's had his back moment.
Yeah, it's like, I'm not the guy.
I'm not worthy or whatever.
And then, you know, he is because he's learned some like important thing about being king.
Humility or like losing people that are close to you or whatever.
They have that in Thor 2.
I don't think they do.
Thor 2 is pretty.
Well, he loses his mum.
Right.
She dies.
And then he beats the bad guy.
Whatever.
I was going to say.
The problem is not a defense of Thor 2 that there's no lesson.
No, no, I'm not going to defend Thor 2 because it's fucking shit.
And then Thor 3, like, well, he loses his father.
Like, you know, Odin passes away.
And he's got no one else to turn to now.
He's the sole source of, you know, leadership for his people.
Is that not what it takes to like build a king?
Is that not what you look for in the qualities of a leader?
You know, he's learned humility.
He's learned like loss.
He's now learned like you have to be the person that people look to.
I mean, like I said, I would have been on board with a couple of different ways to take his story.
I think he would make a good king, but I think he also, for his own sake, needs some time away from it.
But how much time do you need?
What is the other thing?
Thor's story's not finished yet.
We don't exactly know exactly where they're taking Thor's story.
And since he's now in the hands of James Gunn, I would assume he's going to take care of him
because James Gunn has been typically very good with character arcs in the MCU.
I fucking adore all the Guardians of the Galaxy characters.
I would almost say he's the best with character arcs in the MCU.
I mean, who's this competition?
The Russos?
The Russos.
Mm.
They're the one with the Hulk's character arc.
No, but when you look at The Winter Soldier,
the Captain America movies, there is a good character arc that runs right through all that.
James Gunn hasn't got anything bad on his record, despite the fact that the Russos have my favorite
ones. They also have Hulk under their belt right now, which is a failure, as far as I'm concerned.
Maybe there's discussion to head about that, but this is the thing.
Endgame has its issues, and we haven't even concluded if what they did to Thor was a bad
or a good overall in Endgame yet.
For me, the best character arcs that we've got going within the MCU, like Tony, obviously,
he's come to an end, and Captain America. The character arc that he goes on is absolutely
brilliant throughout his movies. Thor doesn't quite measure up to it, to be honest.
Well, this is the thing. That's why hopefully James Gunn can do a lot with Thor.
We'll have to see. He's got a lot of characters to sort out. I feel kind of bad for James Gunn.
He's got one movie to try and make meaningful progressions for Peter, New Gamora, Nebula.
Yeah, he's got to bring Gamora back into it.
I think they've done him a favor. They've done him a favor because they pressed the
reset button on so many characters.
What do you mean? Is that a favor to him, though?
Yeah, because the moment you have Gamora get with Peter, you've lost the tension. You've
lost the will, they won't need kind of question about the movies. Where do you go from there?
I don't know where I was going to go from there, actually. So save me from it.
I would trust James Gunn to find something interesting to do because I've not seen him
fuck up yet. I don't think it'll be as simple as they hook up again, which is why it'll potentially
be very interesting. Who knows what's going to happen? I'm totally up for Guardians of
the Galaxy 3. I really, really want it to be amazing. It can make me invest in them to you.
The trilogy rule with the Guardians movies, I hope it's like three, four, maybe five. Fuck it.
Yeah, they're doing volumes. Anyway, yeah, this video, I feel, again, we're doing this.
It has a moment that solidifies itself as a true hero, which is weird when you consider that
literally every other core Avenger has a moment like that. Hawkeye volunteers to be the one to
test the dangerous time travel. Black Widow sacrifices herself for the soul stone. Hulk
brings everybody back. The way they showed
Black Widow sacrificing herself, that's not the way I would want to picture it.
Yeah, we talked about it. We weren't happy. It's still too raw.
I just don't like that it's a shot for shot like a
redo of Gamora's death. They don't use the exact same soundtrack.
But it's obviously intentional. I just don't think it was a good idea.
They shouldn't have done it.
Who would even have settled for Hawkeye's reaction alone? Because we know exactly what's just
happened to Black Widow, if you know what I mean? Yeah.
What do you actually think about that whole encounter?
Who's death you mean? Or? Yeah, her kind of sacrificing herself over Hawkeye,
the fight that they battled over it. Who was going to be the one that gave themselves up
ultimately? We were showing the difference between the heroes and the villains because
the villain Thanos is there and he's like, okay, you're going to have to die for this.
And the heroes are there going, no, it should be me. No, it should be me.
I'm pretty sure they will show it. That was a very clear message there.
This is what makes you the hero is being willing to sacrifice
yourself and making the villain sacrificing others.
I think this is what made it interesting. It's like they were both willing to sacrifice
themselves to any equal measure. Hawkeye kind of felt like he had nothing left to live for
Black Widow. She never had any family. She never had anything. She didn't have anything
that she was trying to recoup, if it were. So they were both fighting each other for that right to
give themselves up. And I think it played out very well on screen. I personally didn't know
who was going to be the one that ultimately gave themselves up.
Well, I think Hawkeye did say, tell my family, I love them.
Yeah, he had something, but they didn't make too much of it.
Yeah, I really liked it. Who I feel sorry for is when Red Skull is like
daughter of Ivan, fucking daughter of Thanos. I always feel sorry for the parent that doesn't
get mentioned in that. Like, why are they the main parent?
When I have two parents, he's like, no. One of them is more important.
Hawkeye volunteers to be the one to test the dangerous time travel. Black Widow sacrifices
herself for the soul stone. Hulk wields the gauntlet and brings everybody back,
potentially losing his arm in the process. Cap proves himself worthy enough to wield.
Doesn't that apply to Thor?
No.
Well, it doesn't apply to him, but it's more just like Cap's the person that you never...
Yeah, but he said that it's a moment because he's proven he's worthy to wield and it's like,
but that's the moment that Thor has as well. And I guess you're saying it doesn't count
because Thor's wielded it before.
It's not supposed to, it doesn't count, but it's more like it's not have the same emotional impact.
Like you've never seen Cap hold Mjolnir before.
I agree. I just mean the logistics of it.
Right, okay.
Because he's saying these as proofs, right? It's like Pearson sacrifices themselves.
Pearson chooses to do something that's very dangerous.
Pearson is proven with Mjolnir to be essentially a hero, an altruistic, worthy person.
He's like, oh, but Thor gets that too. He's like,
I was effective. And I'm like, oh, but but on paper, these are the same things. Are they not?
I mean, my hammer and Tony Stark, I don't know. Can you guys think of any sacrifices
or heroic moments Tony had? I'm drawing a blank. Thor is the only one who doesn't get one of those
and the weird thing is he did have a moment like this in Infinity War where the whole taking the
force of a star seems a little bit arbitrary to me. So you want to just have a moment that was
all about Thor doing a specific thing that was heroic. But yeah, it's kind of.
But you know, fighting Thanos wasn't enough, I'm guessing.
And like gearing up for it. And I don't know.
I'm not saying like I'd be against or having a quote unquote moment. I'm just not sure that it
fixes the issues that I think I have with Thor in the movie.
More of Thor's moment should have been just getting up to fight, getting the courage
up to fight Thanos in the first place. That would have been maybe like hearing him a little bit.
His fear of his that the problem he was having was like the fucking fear of Thanos.
So for him, just going up against Thanos is the resolution to that art.
It's like, fuck, when he suits up and gets the double hammer shit, I was like, oh, here we go.
You might be like, that's not a hero moment. I'd be like, I don't know.
No, that's a fucking hero moment.
To me, it's like a comeback. You know, it's like Thor is fucking here, guys.
Do you do we all know and fucking Stormbreaker at the same time? That is beautiful.
And he's got beard braids.
The beard looks awesome. He looks fucking awesome when he does that.
If only the lightning shaved off like 60% of his body weight along with giving his beard braids.
Totally it worked that way.
Had a lot less impact since Thor's failures at that point in the story were much less massive.
And because it happens while cutting back and forth.
Massive, massive, massive.
Meaning the pacing didn't allow for the same impact where his near sacrifice could really sink in.
Giving Thor one of these moments.
It's a suspiciously large budget.
Where he affirms that he's not afraid of Thanos despite his failure would have been all I needed.
All he says is let's kill him properly this time.
Yeah, okay, great.
But this confrontation with the only guy you ever failed to defeat should have way more weight.
But isn't that directly correlating then?
Let's kill him properly this time versus let's not.
More weight.
He had significantly more weight.
Yeah, like for anyone who watched the previous movie, it's got all the fucking weight you need.
Him saying let's kill him properly this time makes you flash immediately back to
the fact that he didn't hit his head off the first time around.
Was supposed to.
I disagree.
That's my point.
He's about to get to how the last Jedi does it myself.
This is the thing.
This is the part of the video I could see myself agreeing with to a degree.
Bring on the last Jedi.
I was about to say once he starts saying the last Jedi is the way I did it correctly.
Like, oh, it's like Thor is fighting him.
Just call it now.
It's just going to be Luke had a hero moment when he went out
and did the force projection and then saved the resistance.
Yeah, he saved them.
He saved them by doing absolutely fuck all and then vanishing in a puff of noise.
Let's enjoy the Marvel talk for as long as we can.
Guys.
Yeah, let's let's do this.
Okay, let's do this.
But this confrontation with the only guy you ever failed to defeat
should have way more weight.
It just feels like Thor is fighting him just because
that's what the original three Avengers got to do.
Not because of his own personal vendetta against them.
Really?
I disagree.
I feel like the whole reason he's fighting him is because this is Thanos.
I don't think that he's fighting him just because I was bad guy.
Best stop him.
He's made me realize that let's kill him properly.
This time is actually a pretty awesome line.
Yes.
That feels largely neglected here.
I know Thanos almost sliced Thor open with his own axe at one point,
but there was no interplay between those characters.
I think that would have been a great opportunity for a small back and forth that bit, but there.
Thanos to say something and Thor says something back that's indicative of their characters.
I think you've got you've got you've been hurt.
That's the problem.
That's the problem is that they're not the same fucking people.
So I was just like, who are you?
And Thor is like, um, fuck you.
Yeah, I think apparently you've got a problem with these two, like super power characters.
You know, it's always going to be difficult, difficult thing to kind of mesh up where you've
got like Thor who like feels like it's his inherent destiny to like kill Thanos.
And you got Thanos who's like so overpowered that he's not even going to like sweat something
like Thor coming at him.
Where do you, where do you kind of go with that?
I'll tell you actually how you could fix this.
Have it be, have it when they fail, um, to get some of the stones, the place they go instead to
get the stones is the fucking garden before Thanos destroys them.
And then have original Thanos basically just before he destroys the stones is the version
of Thanos that comes to find them in the end that could work your opinion shut up.
So the fact that it was Thor really didn't make a difference.
I mean, the Scarlet Witch confrontation was great.
Exactly what I would have hoped for after what happened last movie.
Why didn't Thor get a moment like this?
So is it a symbol as a couple of lines then?
It's, no, it's not as simple as a couple of lines.
I think you need a bit of bi-play within the sort of set piece that they've set up.
They need to have a bit of back and forth about fighting a little bit of, um, you know,
one person's on top, the other person isn't.
I was about to imagine it.
I was like Thor is like, you took everything.
I was like, no way you can't say that because that's what Scarlet Witch says.
He says, uh, you just draw it now.
Uh, you.
And I'm like, he says something and then Thanos is like,
I don't even know who you are.
I can't say that because he says that to Scarlet Witch.
This is the problem of making Thanos a person who doesn't recognize any of these people.
This is the fundamental issue I have with like past Thanos,
where he basically doesn't have a fucking clue what's going on.
He doesn't know, he doesn't know who anyone is.
He doesn't know why they want to stop him or anything.
Beyond standard altruistic misunderstanding from Thanos' perspective.
Yeah.
So like he doesn't have a fundamental emotional reason for wanting to beat any of them.
And, and as a result, there's nothing at stake here.
Like he's, he's, he's not trying to beat any of them because he's set himself against them
on a personal level.
It's all just because they happen to stand in his way.
And it's such a weekend until like such an amazing story is such an amazing saga.
Yes, this is the thing I'd want to rewrite it.
So yeah, I agree with you.
Like I want them to be fighting the same Thanos from Infinity War.
I want it.
I want it to be something that they fucking like they would give anything for.
Like they would kill anyone.
They would sacrifice anyone in order to achieve this aim.
I want them to come down to that final fucking point where like anyone would give up whatever
is close to them.
Whatever means everything to them because this is what it comes down to.
This is like the final fucking decision that decides the fate of the whole fucking galaxy.
That is what like a movie like this should come down to.
And it doesn't come down to that because nobody fucking knows what anyone's wants.
Well Thanos doesn't know like the rest of them sort of.
Yeah, it's awkward.
And this is the thing.
You'd have to completely rewrite the film at that point and bid what we got.
And not to say that that's not what you should do.
I just mean that are like endgame changes completely when you highlight the issue is
that Thanos actually doesn't have a relationship with any of these people.
Like oh so we have to rewrite it so that.
Give me one weekend and a whole bucket of cocaine and I will sort it for you.
And I would watch the shit out of it.
Why didn't he get any sort of dramatic beat or sacrifice play during the final battle?
He's one of the core Avengers in their final.
Dramatic beat or sacrifice play.
I think he had dramatic beats.
I guess he didn't have a sacrifice play.
No.
Dramatic beat all the way.
Does he need to have a sacrifice play though?
Unearned.
Unearned dramatic beat.
What else does he have left to sacrifice?
Except his life.
And he does try.
His heterosexuality I guess.
He does go to do the the the finger snap but Iron Man's like no not you.
Like I said I can't remember what the dialogue is exactly but Hulk does it instead obviously.
I'm more perplexed to see what the Luke Skywalker aspect.
All right yeah we'll we'll kick on.
Final movie together and he was the main hero in the last movie.
It literally started and ended with his confrontations with Thanos.
Why does he feel like an afterthought in this movie?
On top of that Thorin in-game did have his scenes that were played for laughs.
He did have his doc ill.
I know I said earlier that they didn't play him for laughs that often but I misspoke and I was
oh fuck I wanted to read that sorry.
Why would you not just edit out?
He did have his dog.
But I misspoke and I was referring to his depression and fear being played for laughs.
These jokes aren't quite the same thing.
Just change the change the bit you recorded.
That's what you go back into.
I was gonna say that's a significant thing.
Like you want to fix that.
You realize a lot of people just like play a video game and like playing in the background
which is what I'm doing right now and fucking Waluigi's a piece of shit
and keeps knocking me off my fucking bike.
Wolf you son of a bitch Waluigi.
I want you to give this to your 100% attention.
Yeah Wolf you worthless piece of shit.
Hey I'm giving it like 30% of my attention and that's perfectly fine.
No I want to lace 60% you son of a bitch.
Okay I'll bump it up to 60% I'll go on the easier maps and bump it up to 60.
There you go.
Scene and your labowski jokes and cheese whiz and so on and so forth.
He also seems really easy to encourage.
Don't bring Farquaad into this.
Yeah I actually think it's lame that they get him to come back into the fight
by saying there's beer on their ship.
I was like okay.
Seems like that was a missed opportunity for something there but okay.
What's wrong with beer?
No it's not that it's the fact that he's so vehemently against it
because he's not in the fight and he's traumatized by Thanos and it's like we have beer.
He's like oh okay.
Again I wanted to take him really seriously but the film didn't want him
and I was like fine.
Too easy considering he has the dust of half the universe on his hands.
He joins the time travel mission because beer.
He talks to his mommy for like four minutes and bada boom he's back.
I still think I don't know people seem to hate that scene apparently.
I fucking I thought it was great.
I think it was it was good to have it and I can see what it accomplished from a character point of view.
I reunited my PTSD of having to sit through.
Oh right.
Thor the dark world happened.
I love being reminded of that.
Yeah I was just sitting through it thinking like yeah there's so many people in my family
that have died from alcohol abuse that I wish I got a chance to catch up with.
Yeah yeah.
That plus just the the message itself.
Like I said the who people tell you to be versus who you want to be and you might be like well
does that apply to Thor?
I'd be like I'm not necessarily talking about that right now.
Just I think it's a good message in general.
Maybe it is clunkily delivered.
I'd have to really go over it.
I think it applies to Thor because I don't think Thor only had one direction to go with his development though.
I think I could I could understand the arguments for it being clunky.
Yeah I thought it was a particularly effective scene.
I think there's Thor from his own dependent movies and there's Thor from the Avengers movies.
They're two very separate entities.
Oh no please don't tell me this is true.
Yeah it's almost like they've got like two conflicting like screenwriting visions for this character.
No no sorry I'm not.
That's what it is.
Talking about the video.
What?
One second talk amongst yourselves.
What's happening here?
Something bad.
So if you compare that tie-line thing I honestly thought they were women.
Oh dear.
Wait what?
A bunch of people are saying that Star Wars girl sister died.
Fuck yeah apparently the sister died.
Oh fuck man.
What is this thing?
So uh sorry to sorry to be such a downer right now.
That Star Wars girl she's been on um my stream before we were talking about
Game of Thrones and stuff.
Recently her sister went missing and she's just been trying to raise awareness to find her.
She's been gone I think six days today.
I think it was and apparently she's died.
Oh shit man.
Um fuck fuck um there's nothing to what can we say about.
If anyone has Twitter go send that Star Wars girl all the can.
That's horrible.
Um we send our ultimately our sincere condolences for for what's happened.
Shit.
What can you say?
Goddamn.
I don't even know where to go from that.
Yeah there's no not much you can do in shit.
Do we do we take a minute to just have like a minute silence or something like that?
We kind of did.
Yeah.
You just can't after that go well back to the video then.
I like I was thinking like what should I do on Twitter in a second?
I don't want to be say anything that could remotely be insensitive.
You know like the idea of liking a tweet that's talking about someone who's died.
Yeah you have to comment on it.
Oh I hate having to go so I can't say anything but yeah send all the love you can.
That's all I can say.
That's terrible.
That's a horrible thing to have happen.
Yeah just give me a second I want to.
What is so Twitter?
Have you um.
At that Star Wars girl.
TRL instead of girl.
Like I don't know if you guys have had this happen but I certainly have within my own
family like people who go missing and then they turn up.
They basically turn up dead like like a week later.
It's like a suicide basically.
I haven't had that happen but.
No I have.
Perfect.
Like for me like it happened to a cousin of mine and I was at his funeral.
You know it was at least a year ago and I was talking to the guy who gave like a eulogy
at that funeral and a couple of weeks later he himself like ended up taking his own life.
And it's kind of a shit thing to have so a lot of people like I don't know if that's what's
happened in this case but it seems to be something that happens quite a lot nowadays like people
kind of go missing for like a week or something then they turn up they turn up dead at the end of it.
I remember what um oh go ahead.
I mean it doesn't look like she said how it happened does that happen.
I wouldn't want to be the one to ask the question.
I can't remember what it's like a TV show or movie about trying to find people who've gone
missing but I remember them saying something along the lines of like for every like even half day
or day that they're missing extra like the likelihood of them being dead dramatically
increases because like that's how missing person cases go or whatever and it's just like
the one thing the uh life works in that way apparently with with missing cases.
This is a problem I just uh you never know what to say in these situations and I feel
pretty bad about it um it went solo released me and Alex after watching it uh did a stream just
talking about it and halfway through uh toll biscuit died or at least the announcement was
was out that he had died and he was just it's just like well because me and Alex have been
watching him since we came on youtube. I think um like from a professional point of view I think
the best thing to do is just move past it and do what we're doing and talk about whatever we're
going to talk about um as close as it sounds like it's not making light of uh people passing away
or anything but uh she was my age we do we do what we do yeah generally story happens and uh
we will uh carry on I suppose back to
Marvel vs Star Wars as they call it but yeah um anyway it's just it's just bad news that's all
I'm excited to see the Star Wars aspect of this
too easy considering he has the dust of half the universe on his hands he joins the time travel
mission because beer he talks to his mommy for like four minutes and bada boom he's back to
his old self for how realistically his grief was set up it's resolved really quickly and without
any real weight I don't think it's resolved or at least uh if I was to be approaching his character
in guardians three uh I would be like this we still got plenty to work with um if he if he
literally is is complete in his arc as of guardians three and have to invent something
new for him I would be like yeah endgame didn't exactly handle him very well this is what I was
saying for Bruce in Infinity War I was like this is clearly a stepping stone and that his arc is
going to be uh moved on or completed or developed in endgame and then they didn't so I don't think
I don't I don't think they've ever given much of a shit about Bruce I don't know why though
he should be great right there's a lot you can do with duality of man
but he's not that interesting he was so good in the first avengers
yeah well how much of that is mark is down to mark ruffalo uh it's not about the the actual
character being interesting but he's never given a chance to be there because he's like scared of
himself at that point um and he's like he's he's powerful but he's also this really sinister
presence who can really fuck shit up if uh if he hulks out when he when he doesn't want to
um the the idea that the the what I was expecting uh from endgame was something along the lines of
he is able to commune with hulk in some way shape or form some kind of little bit goofy back and
forth be it a mirror or a puddle or something where he's able or just him and he's able to
sort of have that conversation and we figure out finally definitively was it that he was afraid
because he'd finally lost a fight to Thanos was it that he hated being used by the avengers to
fight evil he had enough of being a tool to them sort of thing something was going on
if that was what people took from it that was a fucking lot of reaching well I mean what did you
expect well I could get the whole idea that like he lost the fight to Thanos he was afraid of him
but then you would think like well his character arc then would be redeeming himself and he would
like you would learn to put that aside he'd become a he'd become brave and he would fight Thanos again
but here are some really cool youtube videos on that just uh i hear
um so my the groundwork is there you can use it you don't necessarily have to but something happened
between infinity war and endgame something very interesting to do with hulk and banner we didn't
even get to see it that's part of my issue we can infer what that he did a science and then he
combined them both and also we can take that uh like in the timeline of infinity war
he's afraid of Thanos because he fought him as hulk at his full power got his ass kicked
didn't like it and he's afraid to come out again okay it's stupid but like fair enough that's the
character arc then you've got the the five-year gap between infinity war and endgame and it's
like okay he's learned to fuse this aspect of the hulk with his own personality so that he's got the
intelligence of Bruce Banner and he's got the power of the hulk okay again it's a bit goofy
it's a bit silly but it sort of makes sense from a narrative point of view the flat line for me
it's like yep that's that's a story fine yeah it's like it's it's boring it's not like where
you want want it to go from a narrative point it doesn't make sense it's that you know the standard
they just didn't really do because the fact is they've comboed them both but there's no hulk
personality in there at all just Bruce the big they literally have the scene where he's like
i don't really want to smash stuff like where's the hulk gone
like they literally should have a scene choice like yeah the hulk isn't there anymore by the
way i think there's a lot of wasted potential and talk about like it's the funny thing you look back
and you're like man they fucked up hulk in the beginning and then avengers kind of fixed him
oh then they fucked him up again in age of ultron because of the love thing and oh ragnarok kind of
brings him back because he's kind of like this clearly a development for hulk and he's still
doing blah blah blah it's like oh where we going with him now and he's like oh they fucked him up
again um and yeah that's the thing it just feels like they never knew what they were doing with
hulk and i think most people would agree with that um and that's true hulk still got some story left
potentially uh we don't know what they'll do with him but uh you really think it's like do you
really want to see it no do i want to see banner and hulk having a like a disagreement to the
fundamental level of who they are and what they should be doing yeah do you want to see where they
take the the hulk like character i mean i you mean you mean like a potential version of what
could have happened instead of endgame or like no like more like yeah if they were to do like hulk
standalone movie it's like okay well this is we're going to take him after the events of endgame
sure i'd love to see that would you go i would love to see a captain marvel two three four and
five if they were amazing i don't really give i don't i don't think that we're limited as writers
too how can you make the hulk work i'm like what do you mean how we gotta try we gotta work with
this shit like yeah it's tough like taking into account like the actual writing ability of the
people that we're talking about like well that's the rusos are supposed to be the best in the mcu
and yet we've spent a long time criticizing the the you know final movie james gunne's better
yeah if james gunne had to have james gunne do clone james gunne several times and have all
of the james gunneman's do uh do the the rest of the mcu if they announce that there's a solo movie
for um the the wasp i'd be like really um but this it could still be great a solo movie for uh
epipods and valkyrie they they have a bonus those two movie i'd be like oh all right give it a shot
there's no reason why any of these movies can't be good it's just that they probably wouldn't be
i don't disagree with that i just i don't know i feel like they kind of fucked up with hulk in uh
in end game they didn't do shit with them they they skipped over the part that i i would say would
be the most interesting element of his like they skipped the development part is kind of what i'm
trying to say we saw the pre and post do you think no bullshit thinks it's like a metaphor
for being gender non-binary because he's halfway between the two states i think your own will
certainly yeah um shadow visti is pmb said he would buy jumping in uh he's very passionate
about the mcu i don't know uh maybe he could bring him bring him in bring him in let's all
right let's do it shad what what's his name well he goes by shad right all right shad not shad man
not man we will talk with you
how do you do anticipation is building i can't wait oh yeah you never got to meet wolf wolf this
is shadow visti shadow visti this is i was so fucking disappointed that i couldn't make it to
the stream that you were on because i was heading out to vacation so i couldn't really make it to
that one unfortunately shad um i've got a question for you actually have you defeated sadora of the
malmori oh gee a lot of all the things to address but it's awesome to be on a feed with your wolf
and sador what have you not seen battle beyond the stars jesus fucking christ get out of here
anyway what's happening fellas what's in the stream what are things to say well yeah end game
is a very divisive subject a lot of people feel that different characters were either ruined or
celebrated and changed to the worst or the better what's your take on for go for it how dare anyone
anyone say anything negative about end game i'm like no not so loud we're already there man so uh
yeah my question to scream your captain marvel is in it which means it's okay to not like it
this is your chance shad this is your chance to like lay on us and tell us why it's so good
ah lots of reasons it's a complex it's a complicated subject oh you know why you
know why it's the greatest movie in the world no simple right captain marvel gets KO'd true
like oh when she came in fighting phanos i was so worried she was getting a high jacket right
this was my biggest worry and i was like no don't you do this and then she gets infinity stone
punch to the face and i was like thank god that's so happy about that yeah do you feel that was the
biggest moment of suspense in the whole movie are they actually gonna do this how ironic is that
the most suspense moment in the whole film was oh god thaddeus is he gonna be okay thaddeus please
if you ever needed more proof that captain marvel is the true villain
don't let him win i was personally hoping that the don was gonna come here
like with a fucking infinity stone right in his hand punch was justice for the don
he is an infinity stone incarnate what is the the stone of oh good question
do you think all the the essence of the don put together because one human being cannot
possess that much greatness so he had to distribute it in all these stones i think that makes sense
oh of course i should have how rude of me shad this is j with the the icon that has
the pink background and the critical drinker the guy who's drinking critically hey fellas
good to meet you hey man i love your videos especially when you talk about teshiyama hey man
i'm gonna pass out soon so uh yeah make it quick yeah i've been drinking a lot by now too i'm with
you buddy i just woke up what are you on tonight are you on rum yes rum and uh coke
and it's gotta be coke yeah everyone's running cold yeah we haven't even gone to the star wars
arguments yet i honestly have to see star wars arguments before i like vomit so the star wars
argument is gonna make you vomit i assume well just on what you were saying about the hulk um
right before i came on right uh what you're saying mauler is i think spot on right the the
most significant thing that's happened to these two characters it's the dynamic between the hulk
and of course bruce banner and it's the conflict and up to every point that we've seen on screen
the hulk has been more powerful than bruce banner if he gets angry or anything like that the hulk
takes control and then suddenly the hulk isn't coming out when he wants to and bruce is fighting
is actively fighting to get the hulk to come out and then obviously something happened off screen
well he didn't even see where bruce banner finally overcomes the hulk wins it and and he actually
gains control that is like the most significant thing that's happened to this character ever
and we don't see it just just he practically took advantage of that he's removed hulk's
personality and taken his strength yeah like could you have imagined if infinity war right
where thanos is just knocking everyone down and bruce banner is seeing this and he's getting
really like he's seeing his friends get killed and everything and then he just starts like no hulk
i'm taking control you're coming out and then it snaps and he becomes the bruce hulk right
fully in control and the full strength and then he comes in and starts fighting thanos now he
doesn't have to win but because we've seen the hulk it been before but the fact that he would
have had that moment that would have been epic and they just didn't happen well honestly when
the scene starts and hulk is talking to them as hulk and with bruce banner's voice in the
cinema i was like whoa okay this is happening i was expecting because you've already seen that
in thor ragnarok though i mean yeah have we yeah i mean he was talking when he wasn't bruce banner
yeah maybe not to the extent that bruce banner was but he was kind of like you know hulk um like
raging fire and like thor like smoldering fire yeah like he obviously understood where he was
and what was going on who was around him that all that sort of thing but that's the the difference
between the characters that i liked and wanted to explore and again ragnarok similarly to how
ragnarok kind of ignored thor one and two endgame kind of ignored ragnarok in a little bit for that
character because the funny thing is infinity war seems to have cared about ragnarok quite a bit
with with what they develop but um yeah i don't know from what i like i don't know if you guys
are different on this but from what i've seen hulk is the one that most people just simultaneously
agree on being kind of meh wasted i don't know what they were doing with hulk i don't know why
that's the case you'd think that they had it all there the idea that hulk doesn't want to come out
i was like oh that's a way to go where are we gonna go with this what are we doing with it and
it was like oh i just silenced it so that i'm strong i was like oh yeah i think that's the
problem if you don't go anywhere with it then it's not a point it's not like a useful character arc
but uh he's like to give him nothing like why doesn't he get anything like you know because
as much as this guy's complaining that thor didn't get enough it's like thor got a lot more than hulk
did like hulk doing the snap hulk doing the snap um yeah that's a great sign of his character
being one that's willing to sacrifice i agree with that but you know he only did it because he
thought he wasn't gonna have to sacrifice anything he's like i will lose the least all right it's
logical but it's not like true really he he was kind of like yeah like the most thing that's
gonna happen to me is that it couldn't be a big burst of gamma rays it's like well i can absorb
that so no problem practically says that he was built for this he literally says he was built for
this no it's like i was built for this that's the line i remember that line yeah um yeah well
shad what's your take on thor go for it well it's interesting right so there was obviously a much
um more somber tone in infinity war with his character and then he became more light-hearted
in endgame and i don't necessarily think that that is inconsistent because in infinity war
this is like right after half of his people is wiped out and you know he sees his brother dead
and everything like that and so he hasn't really had time to process it and then of course we go
five years forward where not only has that happened then he blames himself for not stopping
thanos and so it kind of fits to me well like in my mind that he he could have just spiraled down
as a result and we see that marshmallow for as a result and because now has had time to process it
and he hasn't been dealing with it well at all um yet there is that side of him that you know even
though he seemingly has given up and he doesn't want to go on the spaceship like how that guy was
saying thor only came because of beer he's like no he obviously wants it's wants a chance a second
chance but he's battling against his own kind of lethargicness that is built up over five years
but that's still there and so in my mind i was kind of seeing that seeing that he really wants
to go and is just looking for any excuse to overcome himself and the beer thing was just
that excuse he wanted to go from they get like you know all the way if that makes sense that's
interesting idea he was waiting for some tertiary silly reason to go yeah like just an excuse like
because it obviously has been eating him up and he hasn't given up um even though he's just being
blase about everything um but yeah so anyway that's that's kind of just how i saw it
but should we should we see the end of this video oh yeah i was gonna say chat do you want
to jump into responding this video with us or do you want to what do you want to do yeah well
let's do this thing if he's gonna try and defend the last jedi if you follow that link it'll take
you to uh watch together we did before but uh this time defending the last jedi is a rallying
people all the nerds come out of the woodwork what did you say
bada boom he's back to his old self for how realistically his grief was set up
it's resolved really quickly and without any real weight i know there's a lot of plot lines
and character arcs to fit in but the movie is three hours long you could have found time to
develop one of your main three characters more just cut the scene where ant-man eats a taco
actually i take that back that's one of my favorite scenes i'm sorry i dissed it but the
more i thought about thor in this hang on that was his favorite scene and he said something really
really flippantly there that he's just taking for granted he's saying what thor's grief was resolved
like i didn't get that impression as i feel he has a lot of crap to work through still yeah
that's that was actually something i said earlier i was like i'm i'm assuming we're not done with
thor by a long shop but i could be wrong they might ignore you know we never know because it's
passing through different writers we don't know what they're doing but uh i would hope that they
deal with for later he no they won't they he's got ptsd but like the that's that's enough to set
him up for like his next uh endeavor which will be guarding you through the galaxy well what if in
guardians the storyline is going to be that they you know be it rocket peter probably peter actually
i think that would be suitable considering they've been at odds with each other is the one that
reignites thor's interest in leading or something like that like they get to break down
well that could happen yeah it's a good point but i don't think i don't think they'll do it
maybe not but what if they did what if they did though we can hope we can hope i like blow you
know captain marvel disappearing but um so that yeah i like that point because uh now i've forgotten
i just woke up fellas if you've got a point to make then make it otherwise oh that's right that
gave up yeah he gave up on lead leadership completely um at the end of um endgame and then
he was just trying to you know go on a trip to to find himself and stuff that is uh an interesting
kind of character development because there's always been about leadership and he wanted it
by by by interesting do you mean uh fucking bullshit yeah so you didn't like that
we've got three movies of him like learning all of the skills and all of the lessons the moral
lessons that he needs to be leader you know like um he learns humility he learns what it means to
lose loved ones and stuff and uh and be alone um and ultimately that's what you need to become
leader you need to be self-sufficient you need to um put uh your own personal needs and wants aside
and you get that and then uh there suddenly he's like no um no i i'm not ready to be leader of
asgard i'm gonna like defer it to valkyrie and i'm gonna go and do something else that just seems
nonsense to me well what if there's another element that actually bridges the gap between
that character development and and that it might not be too as unreasonable as it seems because
you're right he does go through all this leadership arc to learn to be humble to learn to take
responsibility and everything like that and then from his perspective he sees that he failed
miserably at everything he takes leadership and then it was his actions that led asgard to being
destroyed and then he puts him on the ship and then thanos comes in kills his brother and then
he tries to fight thanos and then loses at that again and so i think that could be a very
reasonable uh you know these are reasonable events that makes him realize i suck at leadership
i'm giving up on it and and now he has to kind of uh regain some of that progress that he lost
what do you what are your thoughts on that well that that then becomes like an about face and
he has to go back to where he started you know if it's like but if it's justified no no but it's
not because then his whole his whole character arc is like i need to prepare myself for leadership
i need to sacrifice the things that like leaders need to sacrifice in order to become leaders
i need to put aside my my own petty um you know arrogance or like desire for power or anything
like that i do all of those things and then it's like oh no but i'm still not ready for power
what the fuck else is there like what else are you going to teach your audience as as
viewers in order to make this character ready for being king um yeah well perhaps the the if
there's a message to be had or to be found in there is that grief can be pretty hard to deal
with and and he has to work through some stuff it is but then you don't then just give up
everything else you don't like leave all your responsibilities ideally no but people do and
thor does have weaknesses and we're kind of getting shown that this is one of them
he does have weaknesses but i think that's something that we've explored in previous movies
which is true and they were they were i found them interesting enough the dark world was a
we can we can ignore that one um but but yeah so it's like yeah there there's
ground he has to go through one that he's probably you know gone through already
but it's for different reasons now this is the point like you you need to learn all of these
aspects of your personality to become leader you know you need to learn humility you need to learn
responsibility all of those things he's learned all of those things so but has he learned true
failure yet that's irrelevant like i don't know when you learn responsibility
failure is potentially an aspect of that but you you can't then just take all of that and say well
he's not ready for being leader yet we'll we'll reset the the tape on this one and he has to go
right back to the beginning to start again do you feel like him at him at the end of end game
is something we've seen before yes what would you pinpoint as an example of what we've seen
thor at the end of thor one thor at the end of thor two thor at the end of thor ragnarok
you think he's the same he's ready for being he's a man who's learned fundamental
truths oh come on you could say that about every hero in every movie
no but like it's particular to thor though you know every every thor movie has had some
aspect of him that's important and it's like taking something away from him it taught him
something and at the end of it he's come out stronger i so whether or not i consider what
they've done in end game to thor to be an overall piece of stronger writing will literally be
dependent on how they take it forward um because if they were to do that thing that we potentially
suggest like right now what i like about it is he's free of asgard and the idea of being a ruler
he's just a dude with uh the collection of the guardians that frees him up for a lot of things
it just depends on what they do with it they could bungle it completely and we can look back on end
game as a complete and utter mess and uh that's that's more than possible because i know a lot of
people feel that way already there's things i like about it but i mean as specifically to thor
but if this is a almost a midlife crisis of he's gone through his full journey to reach x
and it's not quite what he's ready for it's not him whatever if you if you're able to write that
in a way that's convincing you can work with it but what i will give you absolutely is that i
think that's a an unreasonable hope on my part because i feel that way about a lot of different
moments in the mcu and they don't get satisfied for example um i hate iron man 3 and i was like i
pretend that movie doesn't exist they almost destroyed iron man and then civil war sorry
damn civil war and an age of ultron working to like age of ultron's not even that great but
civil war combines the events in a broad sense of iron man 3 and age of ultron to create this
brand new amazing arc that makes me fall in love with iron man again uh could they do that with
what's happened with thor in endgame i think it's possible i just think it's unlikely by the way if
you guys can hear my kids in the background i apologize and they just played minecraft that's
all right i've seen a few people call them shad spawn in the chat
all right my advice is like get yourself a big old uh baseball bat or something just go at it
i just give them swords and say good luck good luck yeah you know that the one that's alive
at the end will be my true heir i must be fun having kids with with swords in the house actually
that's not adlets you have to like you have to like keep a sword room that they can't go in
i keep them in their room i'm joking about it but but they have to they have to learn how to
you know how to use swords from a young age absolutely starting up starting age is probably
zero every time i hear shad i just hear like cedar of mal the the malmori and like i just
i can't get beyond battle beyond the stars there's shadlings shed seal doers air i can't do it
honestly um yeah uh so yeah thor to be to be continued possibly we have to see where they're
taking like go go go we're going it's gonna be a kind of beat that would make his story arc better
i came to an unfortunate realization thor in this movie is just a less developed worst version of
luke in life everybody brace yourselves everybody just like that it's time for the the seek out titty
milk here we go brace yourselves gentlemen two legendary heroes broken by failures that left
their worlds in ruins okay already already luke went through is like i'm sorry what he did what
now why why luke's failure quote unquote amounts to he i decided to kill someone he threatened a
child when they were sleeping because he saw a potential premonition of them being evil in the
future and then abandoned everybody for some reason that's such a false equivalence i don't
i was not comparable to thor in any way she before thor loses most of his people his brother he
failed and he blames himself for you know half the life in the universe dying and luke decides
to kill his nephew because he's getting bad dreams it's like is this the same thing no no
maybe i kill his nephew because there's a possibility he might become bad he might be evil
well let's give some benefit of the doubt maybe maybe there's just a scene out there where thor
was standing over like some child with his axe and he was like i'm gonna cut this fucking thing's
head off he went up to baby Thanos and his crib we were just never shown that scene and that's
that's his whole arc i'm just saying like that decision luke makes is more similar to something
Thanos would do killing for the greater good that's got not to mention have you heard people
talk about how um perfectly balanced luke wasn't exactly wrong because kylo not minutes after that
experience decides to murder a bunch of students like the majority of them but did we gonna be
angry no no no no wait wait wait did we ever get this like definitively sorted out in our heads
was it kylo or was it luke what the killed the students yeah i wanted to be luke
why would anybody after trying to kill kylo was like yeah no witnesses yeah oh my god luke was
trying to frame kylo this whole time luke was like you know i i need to kill kylo and he was
such a fucking useless pussy that he couldn't even do that i was like i just want him to do
something like he he succeeded at something it could be that um kylo's actions might be seen as
an act of self-defense he wakes up his master has a lightsaber about to kill him and is like holy
crap and he's turned against me and then he you know fights luke and it could another you know
logical assumption might be if the master of this jedi temple is trying to kill me what does that
mean about all his devoted student devoted students and they're gonna kill me i'll obviously
better do it before they do it exactly someone said uh for that being self-defense than captain marvel
someone said oh he killed the younglings just like his father the dawn didn't whip out a gun
on captain marvel and to say are you sure about that you're a motorbike right
oh my god well i guess we'll let's continue they retreat someplace close to the sea and drink
their problems away well all right well my own point of view if i can i can identify with that
go somewhere close to the sea and drink their problems yeah yeah it's fine yeah this is next
year i stare wistfully out to the sea and think man i wish i was drowning in that so wait but
is he trying to say that the blue alien tip milk is actually alcohol i guess that's the power i was
shut up wolf that's not the point of this thing that left their worlds in ruins they retreat to
someplace close to the sea and drink their problems away then later they become heroes yet again but
the main difference aside from the fact that luke didn't become a hero at the end of a hero
yeah luke did it over skype i don't think that counts projected it like an image of him
onto this battlefield that he had no involvement in and he had no understanding of what even was
going fucking on and he was there i think i think it's extremely generous to say that luke became a
hero i don't i don't even know that luke cared about that you know people who say like ah luke
was delaying them it's like he didn't even tell anybody in the fucking fucking case right like
wait wait wait did you guys know it was like luke never succeeds anything he does
uh throughout the entire fucking movie like he tries to stop ray from communicating with kylo
then ray beats the shit out of root luke and then she goes away and then luke decides he's
gonna like burn the jedi tempo he doesn't even successfully like teach her anything then
yeah he teaches her fuck all like if you get old you just you just lose all hope and everything
and you know i can i can identify with that because someone said he did successfully catch
a fish though look yeah and he successfully pole vaulted a crevice he successfully actually
molested an alien he he successfully pole vaulted that crevice to like spear a fish that he could
have just speared from where he fucking was to begin with how do you get it how does he lift up
the pole does he lift it all the way up does he go down there where did he where did he make the
pole on an island that's got no fucking trees on it he brought it with him on his x-wing you have
to remember also he pole vaulted across the side caught the fish meaning he had to pull up the fish
and then put the pole back down carry the fish and pole vault with the fish under one arm across
to the other side yeah the the the vault the sorry the pole must have weighed like several
hundred pounds like all the the wood that lead like leads all the way down to the the ocean floor
the fish which must weigh what 100 pounds at least look must be the like strongest motherfucker on
the universe to be able to lift all of that like out of the ocean get it like carry on question
just use the force to catch a fish because he's disconnected from the force wolf on you watching
the fucking film god why don't you just lift the fish out of the water that's what i'm saying
and get the fish so out like that way he's walking what was the point let me ask you a question like
what was the point of that scene like what was that demonstrating to us as a viewer he dishes
we had a fish despite never like working or being on a planet with water in his entire life wouldn't
it be crazy if he had a fish in rod and he was fishing that way wouldn't that just be insane
would not have been over the now let me ask you another question you mean like the kid on the moon
in the dreamworks intro yeah do that when when luke fights ray with their their staffs right
she's just hit someone the fucking back of the head for no apparent reason right and then they
fight each other what does that tell us about these two characters he's an asshole she's like
captain marvel yeah he's like the dog except wow wow now we might be discovering something here
there's more equivalence between ray and captain marvel than there is between thor and luke hmm
but then how does that service the plot now you might think like well okay this would be like
you know if you take the karate kid as an example daniel loruso loses his temper with mr miyagi
and tries to fight him mr miyagi would probably beat the shit out of him to demonstrate like well
all of the things that i've been trying to teach you mean something okay so you think it you think
it's just like pointless like demonstrations of of whatever like wax on wax off or whatever i'm
going to show you that that means something and i can like knock you down because you've got
overconfident in me doing that yeah good what do we yeah yeah but what do we get out of this
in the last jedi nothing ray beats look down she proved that she's stronger than him she's
more knowledgeable in the force she's better at fighting than him and then she leaves
what dramatic purpose does that serve within the story absolutely fuck all and that's that's where
the brighter in me just makes just wants to fucking throw up from my eyeballs because it's
so fucking pointless yeah no i agree completely um yeah it means that it means that ray is awesome
and and and good and this is what i want to this is what i want to say to ryan johnson like what
were you trying to show us with this a better world i want to i want to stress okay this is
this is the problem this is the problem like if you try to write stories based around like
writing stories that are unique and interesting and and and powerful art is hard enough by itself
but if you try to do it when you're bending your story around all the different rules
of like social justice or or identity politics or whatever it might be
be it becomes nigh on impossible to tell a good story and that's what we end up with with this
you have you've ended up with a story where you're bending it around so many different rules
that you can't tell a good story because you've you've lost everything that's interesting about
what these characters are meant to be i mean talk about like we go on tangents with fucking
the marvel series this video is going to take forever to get through because tlj
oh that's some we got something everybody here it's been a long ass time since we last covered
a tlj video through it's true i i i apologize because no it's all good man this is this is
fresh rent away buddy it gives me a chance to eat my pizza and not to say anything oh you got pizza
no i ate it already scuff it down man scuff it down what i wanted to say though about what was
just talked about the whole luke thing so it picture he's walking through that big gap with
the fire and then poe goes whoa look look look look look look he runs right up to him looks like
awkwardly like man you just ruined my entrance but okay what what he goes where did you come in
because we can get out that way like obviously because you came in here somehow so we can get
out that's what he says later and then luke goes oh i'm i'm a ghost and he puts his hand through
poe's face he's like i'm a ghost so yeah and then poe's like what he's like i'm good i don't
fucking i don't know if there's an exit in this place i just came in because i pooped in here
like i just went this yeah this is why i i think i talked to you about this more like
sorry there's a freaky freaky certain child in the background there
well she's freaky as fuck um no like this is so many wrong ways this is an example of
this is an example of like the last jedi and star wars in general just becoming small because
there's no sense of like a larger universe beyond what's going on right in front of the screen
there's no there's no sense that like there's other um factions there's not other people that
are willing to to lend a hand with this there's no other people that want to get involved there's
not any of those scottish guys that were like from kanja club and and uh the force awakens
which which i fucking loved because scottish mafia in space yeah yeah vader you look like a
big black dildo yeah yeah exactly um we don't get any of that you know i completely agree
like the fucking the universe of star wars is tiny it's smaller than marvel by a fucking
massive degree now which is embarrassing it it is smaller than um game of thrones
and that's saying something i mean maybe not season eight because season eight only has three
locations but then how many locations does uh last jedi have uh okay the island we're in space
based on the island crate uncounted by that's four
ah one more one more you know um uh ever good for you to play
we keep going over so much more interesting shit than what's in this video it's like mundane matt
but i've drank a lot but it's actually interesting yeah sure they become heroes yet again but the
main difference aside from the fact that luke is mostly treated with dignity mostly is the fuck off
get fucked you know big steaming turd on his character and dignity mostly what do you mean
wasn't even like full fucking shit my son no fuck i'm gonna i'm gonna crack up my next
bottle of jack daniels for that i'm just gonna go get a burger the american way to get drunk
let me ask you a serious question gentlemen when you think about like luke and um and ray coming
into conflict for no apparent reason and ray beats the shit out of luke what purpose do you
think that serves within the overall narrative what do you think that informs us about their
characters i think the intention of that was to establish ray as being competent and capable
but it just came off with being disrespectful to luke's character undermining his strength and
progression as a jedi and stuff like that but i think that was their intention i think all the
you know success and uh feats that ray is performing i think that is always just trying
to establish that she is a strong independent character kind of thing okay no that's that's
exactly right now thinking about that character in the second movie in a trilogy is that where
you think you want her to be do you want her to be established as a strong independent character
that can do anything she wants and can take on any adversary and can overcome any challenge
do you see nice but do you think that's where she should be in this stage of her character
development i don't know i'm not sure there's a definitive thing to say that she should be
somewhere specific because yes there is i'm gonna tell you where it should be all right i want to
hear but my i guess what i'm saying like from my perspective here ray could have been pretty good
like i think daisy ridley did a really great job but just with her performance with what she had
to work with and and she could have come off really charming everything it's the fact that
they basically gave her no weakness there's no struggle and if she had something to struggle
against and they showed that she might have needed help like any hero should have and stuff
it would have made her more dynamic more sympathetic and stuff like that and especially
if they gave her some uh like training something about some progression in her power development
and things to justify her being so tough um like i could have really liked ray but she's just such
a huge mary sue which you know and so as to specifically what should have happened i'm very
interested to hear okay where she is in her current character development she needs to
set back a major setback she needs to come up against the antagonist and realize that she is
not up to the challenge she needed to fail in some way do you know that she's done with star
was episode nine meaning that she's gonna have a big win in episode nine probably and then what
that means she died imagine if they did that if she got killed she was like she fought against
some big bad and died and the rest of the heroes have to deal with whatever happens next i'd be
like wow good job that'll see no no he's gonna die to sacrifice he's gonna sacrifice herself
to save the entire galaxy and they're just gonna have a massive funeral and statues are gonna be
built off her so yeah they literally chisel they chisel a ray statue out of a previous statue that
had Han layer and Luke in it they like if you guys if you guys think about how Luke was treated in
the previous trilogy like he got a good character arc you know he had this initial success in A New
Hope he went up against Darth Vader hand to hand for the first time in Emperor Strikes Back
and that was him getting a little bit overconfident he he kind of thought he could take
Vader on and he got his fucking ass kicked and he got he got hand chopped off whatever and you got
to see Vader as being a dangerous competent powerful antagonist it served multiple purposes
that that fight it also showed Yoda was right and that you know there's wisdom in the master and
you need to listen to them and stuff okay so when did Ray ever have a mentor when did she ever have
a master when did she ever listen to Luke not at all because he was never allowed to be a master
don't you understand Ray was her master he learned from Ray yeah this is this is the this is the
fundamental problem i have with star wars and like i guess a lot of um movies nowadays you are trying
to write stories you're trying to create these epic sagas um based on rules that you've rewritten
you're trying to do it without the kind of the the framework that works properly because you're
afraid of it because you don't want to see your characters lose you don't want to lose them you
don't you don't want to see them get hurt whatever it might be it kills your narrative
this is what i say like it absolutely kills your ability to tell a story because you're not willing
to put your characters through what they need to go through and you're not willing to do it with Ray
and so she doesn't go through the hero's journey she doesn't learn anything she doesn't grow she
doesn't change she doesn't develop she just stays the same fucking boring virtuous character that
she was always been and then you end up with a boring character that no one buys into because
she never gets tested this is my fundamental problem with everything that's going on with
star wars at the moment yeah Ray is worthless got nothing going on for you as someone who
writes as someone who fucking writes books for a living i can say to you this is fucking killing
the storytelling ability of star wars it's the it's the absolute worst thing you can possibly do
to the the the universe and no one no one seems to see it another thing just why we're talking
about ray makes me wonder like her as a character what does she have invested in the conflict like
what are her personal stakes why does she do good absolutely nothing she doesn't care she doesn't
care about Han she doesn't care about Luke because she never bonded with them she doesn't care
particularly about Finn because she did not spend any time with them there's nothing to draw her
into this but everyone loves her everyone respects her everyone believes in her for no reason well
this is why it would have been more satisfying if she actually turned to the dark side in the last
Jedi because there's no real anchor point for her conflict with the dark side and the bad guys and
stuff i mean Luke he lost his parents and then he sees you know his secondary father figure Ben
die in front of him as well and then he finds out the big bad guy is his real father and he did a
start which he wanted to release he wanted to fight with the rebels already as well he did
establish that he wanted to fight against the Empire she doesn't even have that she doesn't
even have that this this is why i said like the the fight in return of the Jedi between Vader and
Luke is best fucking confrontation you can possibly ask for in all of cinema you're right
there's emotion investment everything that's fucking going on in the past three movies has
built up to this moment this confrontation between these two guys a father versus his son
all of the emotion like a father who's killed the mentor of this son um everything that's
going on up until this point this most evil guy in the entire universe versus this guy who's
trying to redeem him all of it comes down to this one confrontation and it plays out fucking
perfectly can you ever imagine a confrontation like that playing out in the current trilogy
no they haven't said you don't give up you don't give a shit more you probably don't give a shit
wolf you don't give a shit there's nothing like that there's nothing like that to play for
there's no investment and this is what makes me sad because star wars was at its core about
the emotional journey of the characters it was about universal themes of betrayal of loyalty
of family of like all of these things that people no matter where you are no matter where you come
from you can identify with you can't get any of that from what we have now because there's none of
it it's not universal it's not it's not uh it's not something we can buy into so what you're saying
is that you don't like the razor that's what i'm saying yeah um that's exactly that's exactly what
i'm saying yeah um you know you know something that i wish like you know there's there are a lot
of ways that you could try and fix the last jedi and some like some of the problems that you had
to fix give me give me one fucking weekend i could fix it for a year well actually want to see that
would have been so good that because one of the problems with snoke is that he didn't have any
real menace he was just kind of there and so if they had like when snoke had kidnapped ray
brings him into a throwing room right and then um to raise the menace of snoke and give ray some
stakes like you know some reasons why she wants to fight these bad guys if snoke brought in like
say fin and po and who was the asian chick um rose rose and everything like that bring them in
and then one at a time slowly kills them just complete like decapitation bang right in front
of her one like that would have raised the menace of snoke so much because those characters
at the moment they throw away characters they're not really doing contributing like anything of
weight to the story but they could have contributed weight to ray's personal journey because she
apparently you know likes them and so their sacrifice in the in terms of the plot could have
had real emotional weight for character progression this is one of those situations where killing off
a character serves them could have served the plot so well and established snoke is this
vicious you know guy that because then it also makes you really think oh holy crap who's he
going to kill next and now you're invested in it more and then if then wait wait wait
that that would work great in the final movie of the trilogy you reckon yeah that that's the
kind of stakes that you want right at the end where all of the characters that you love that
you care about theoretically anyway that you do you want to see survive they start getting
murdered by this well like this this evil character like who's who's been manipulating
everything who's got ultimate control over everything that would have been brilliant
killing ben in episode one if you will of the trilogy this original he was luke such a strong
motivation to go on and live and and defeat the enemy like if if ray was faced with snoke having
executed fin in the second film i feel like that would be quite a big like oh fuck yeah i would
have been in the right way we have we have to fix fucking everything before we can even make that
scene happen you know what i mean i i i would have been happy to see fin die um that's that statement
you don't like black people
no he he had a good character arc and i think he i disagree what the fuck is his character arc
his character arc i guess is that he's afraid of conflict he's he's a bit of a coward he wants to
get away from it all and he ultimately learns to sacrifice himself for the greater good so like
you know it's not just about you it's not it's not about preserving your life it's about
sacrificing your life if it comes to that for other people when does that in the film
it's it's right at the end with the battering around no he commits to that action but when
does he get what does he learn that he the idea of sacrifice himself so the fight can go on is
something that's above him and he needs to do he goes to he learns that there are bad guys on both
sides and that forces him to realize he's on the good guy's team it makes no sense at all
that's that's the character arc that i want him to have all right i'll give you the character
arc that he gets but that's that's what he should have because that's where he starts from he starts
from the position of you know he's a stormtrooper he's like this mindless killing machine he learns
to like um think for himself he learns to like uh help other people and he learns that um you know
when you think that he's goofy is a complete insult to his upbringing yeah yeah like he didn't
want to be a stormtrooper anymore he was just this is okay with that okay with not wanting to
be a stormtrooper but you don't grow up as a stormtrooper that's been fucking internalized
that you're a warmongering machine in one man that also happens to fall over and go oh god oh
this is so funny he's like no no you know it would have been good if we got just a little bit
of explanation like he wasn't indoctrinated from birth or whatever he was a conscript from like
being a young teenager or something like that and it's like okay he got put into the stormtroopers
he didn't want to do it um but ultimately that's what he got put into and then he rebelled against
it fine you know you've got you've got a little bit of context there like he he was right from
the beginning he was um forced against his will to be doing this thing fine but as it stands like
you don't you don't get much you just see that like he he he never had any signs of non-compliance
and then for the record i was fine i was happy for him to die in that moment that rose ruined
i was actually on board with it in terms of how i saw his arm yeah like with all the supposed risks
that they you know taking and subverting expectations they're things that really would
have taken balls they didn't do like fin dying or ray turning to the dark side or even kylo turning
to the good side like any of the actual things that would have taken they didn't do and then they
crapped on everything else they killed a character who was never important like he was never shown as
he was like he was set up as the big bad and then they were like oh but he isn't but they didn't
invest anything in setting him up yeah like that yeah snoke was a blip and then he disappeared and
so that didn't take balls in my mind he's a plot device he allows the bad guys to get to their
position and he's gone now i i i have to ask you guys a question like what is your serious take
like do you think that um admiral holder was just like a stand-in for layer
no like was was she originally meant to be layer um and you asked wasn't she the affirmative
action replacement for no but like look look beyond that because like when you're from a meta
standpoint no no no not even from that from a purely storytelling standpoint because when you
look at it like leah is angry at uh at pole because he you know he went against orders and
he attacked this dreadnought thing and blew it up or whatever and she's pissed at him because he
didn't obey her orders and then she's just suddenly removed from the story and then you've
got admiral holdo who essentially has exactly the same opinions as leah put into the story and then
she ends up sacrificing herself and killing herself to to further that goal does it not
make sense that that should have been leah originally i think it would have it doesn't
make it doesn't make sense that autopilot doesn't exist in star wars no no it doesn't at all but
then ryan johnson's a fucking retard and we just have to accept that should we i was going to say
by the way you're right it's like they they needed someone who basically had the same reactions as
leah but someone that they could sacrifice because they decided not to kill leah in that
movie for some strange reason exactly i honestly think the first the first draft that ryan johnson
submitted leah was the one he used yeah no no no leah got killed in it and then some some hero
within fucking lucasfilm said oh right i don't think that's a good fucking idea i think that's
the one thing they picked out yeah i would love to think that they picked other things out but
it clearly didn't you're killing off luke and you're killing off leah in one fucking script
you can't do that see i don't know because it falls into their playbook of trying to subvert
everyone's expectations everyone was expecting later on so i think old johnson was like well
i won't kill her then because that's what you think and and so that might have been a first
wasn't everyone expecting her to die because she died in real life
she should have just died yeah i think it would have been uh imagine how
imagine how powerful it would have been if she was the one who piloted that ship
straight into the there oh god we're still at this point we literally okay so it was hoping
that we would have made it further in from this guy saying luke wasn't like humiliated we've just
been ripping into tlj like this whole this has been we've just been fucking sorry man i don't
i've been doing it let me bring you up to speed right but like let me get your take on this
right huh how good would it have been if um layer had been the one who piloted that ship
straight into the the the fucking bridge of the enemy um flagship rather than admiral holdo
that's still how much more powerful anyway i know it wouldn't have fixed anything but like
would have been more meaningful from a dramatic point of view i think it would have been better
if it was ackbar honestly it should have been ackbar holy shit now we got a full house all right
now we can kick jay finally i was telling all while i was gone i was telling this bitch listen
it should have been ackbar the whole goddamn time what did she say i don't know he's only i mean he
wasn't really in it that much he didn't have much impact on the narrative he was yeah i know i he
was i i will i will ask you this like from a serious point of view like would would ackbar
have made any sense from a dramatic point of view yes why okay look holdo's completely fucking
invented so the idea that you have to go oh we can't just add meaning onto ackbar he's just a
meme of a character he's only have five minutes of screeter it's like she gets five minutes more
than fucking admiral pink hair like why why is it the people like oh it makes more sense for
admiral holders she was invented for this film why could we give some development to ackbar
then give him this line he's an existing character for good point this is my thing like i i think layer
would have had much more meaning maybe maybe i'm just saying not holdo what the fuck is holdo no no
no no holdo is like that's my whole point layer should have been holdo throughout the whole story
but what if you have to have the dialogue you can actually have some things you could have had
both you could have had um any time that was devoted to holdo given to ackbar to re-establish
him as someone with depth but the other thing about ackbar is people still liked him because
of their meme he was and people just liked ackbar it's a trap right and and even if they didn't
devote anything to him just because he was a liked character seeing him die still would have
had a more emotional weight and then they could have had um oh what's the moody bad guy again
kylo kylo that's that's his mood he's clearly very rememberable guys um ben ben swole
yeah they could and they could have had him kill layer as well they could have had best
of both worlds right there but they didn't have any i reckon kylo right i just i i just i don't
think i don't wait what did you just say i reckon kylo runs probably a gimp i thought you said he's
okay how dare you yeah that's fine he's probably a gimp that's true that's true you went from zero
to like 100 right there he's okay into a gimp that's the thing way about it as well like you
know how saying ray could have been a great character and they ruined her that's the same
feelings no ray ray couldn't have been a good character honestly there's there's a bit in the
force awakens like up and up until this point like there's a bit where um you see her having
her dinner like in the ruins of some like atat in the middle of desert and she watches like some
space dare you call it atat instead of atat you massive fucking i thought you motherfucker no
it's atat it's an atat that wolf is correct hey sorry an atat it pisses me off because that
new stupid fucking star wars game is like they unironically called it an atat and i was like
licensed star wars product you can't do that well anyway
look i'm gonna pass out soon so i'm gonna have to like hurry this up no that that scene where
where she's like sitting um outside her 8080 um having her dinner and she's watching like a
spaceship kind of take off into the the sort of dusk sky that's a good scene that's a good
character building scene where you you really kind of feel her isolation like she's stuck on
this shit whole planet like where she doesn't want to be that's fine but from that point onward
that's where it starts to go downhill because that's where they start to abandon that idea of
like you have to earn something as a character and then they go beyond that and it's like she's just
perfect to everything she could fight anyone she needs to fight she can win everything she needs to
win and she can just do everything she needs to do that's where like the the the ray as a character
yeah that's where captain marvel wait what
i'd captain marvel too you see there's more equivalence between those characters
it's really unfortunate that they're brand new like role models for feminist strong female
characters when they're both some of the worst characters in the history of fucking fiction
yeah okay we've got captain phasma no i'm gonna let my daughter watch elita battle angel we've
got here just let her watch terminator two or aliens yeah or something like that like that so
that's those have got properly strong good female characters in it let her look up to people
regardless of their gender you can look up to anyone yeah jay that's good before i don't think
that can be done yeah jay that's wrong it's crazy um so uh rags are you in the the watch together
because we're all we're trying to get through a video the eventually um how long have we been on
this video ten years maybe uh so like two hours so right everyone else right everyone else we're
gonna play the point he just said we're gonna let rags respond to it everyone else stay quiet okay
because this is something the rag everyone else let rags in here all right close to the sea and
drink their problems away then later they become heroes yet again but the main difference is
aside from the fact that luke is mostly treated with dignity mostly god it actually has been two
hours and what do you think about that right um luke doesn't become a hero in the end really
what do you think about the state that he's mostly treated with dignity um uh no not at all in no way
absolutely not no it's like ryan johnson hates this character he milks the the semen slash like
breast milks shit off like a sea cow thing it's space yeah yeah and then he gets his ass kicked
by ray who's never fucking held a lightsaber in her life like how's that treating him with dignity
do you think that space rhino would have been justified to use uh
the same force captain marvel used against luke yeah i think legal legal would be on the space
rhino side it's done like that then again was that was luke committing assault upon that space
cow absolutely well in fairness did the space cow because it was non-consensual definitely so did
the space cow crumple a piece of paper that luke was holding earlier did that happen is that a
deleted scene oh think about it it definitely well no like it definitely seemed frightened
the sea cow was just sitting there reading its paper the reading the news about what happened
on the island yesterday no i think it was like like one of my buddies is going to help me out
here like i'm i'm pretty frightened i'm pretty intimidated by this guy but uh he keeps doing it
every day there is clearly a power imbalance there that uh there's like there's several of
them and luke keeps going to the same one he never goes to different
special favorite once everything is over ray is like luke i want to ask you about the cow thing
okay he's like no he's like luke he's like yeah once he's done he's like i'll be coming back for
you do you think it like misses him painted on the hood of his x-wing okay uh so you guys
ready to continue now because we're all everyone's caught up now i don't know if i am
i'm heroes yet again but the main difference aside from the fact that luke is mostly treated
with dignity mostly is the fact that luke's arc throughout the movie is actually focused on
and followed through on a good chunk of the movie when i say what it what it even is luke's arc
he goes from grumpy oldman to grumpy oldman that can project himself and dies like a fart of the
wind like if i if i was going to be super generous i would say like you know he's given up on
everything he's given up on the whole idea of being a jedi and he's given up on the idea of the force
and he eventually learns to reconnect with it and uh and use it to help people but there's
another element to this because it wasn't like something he actually overcame there was an
opinion he had at the beginning that was reinforced by yoda is that the jedi useless and need to be
destroyed and they're bad for the universe and with yoda symbolically i will not symbolically
literally destroying the old ancient jedi text is but like that's the confirmation that the jedi
need to be done with and uh which doesn't make sense with ray becoming the next jedi kind of
thing my my issue with luke is like not only is he portrayed as a horribly flawed character
and and he does horrible things but he doesn't even do them successfully like yeah he's like
bad at being stupid yeah he sees kind of around as a threat so he's thinking about like killing
him but then he draws his lightsaber and then he pussies fucking out and then like kylo ren sees
him with his lightsaber drawn and then that starts like their whole confrontation and then later on
he's like he's gonna like blow up the jedi temple he's gonna like burn it to the ground and then he
pussies out of that as well and then yoda shows up and then has to use lightning to like start it
it's like you've given him the absolute worst you've got a heckler there
a picturing drink of it on the stage this baby like fuck off
seriously i'm trying to work up an emotional kind of moment here so just
all right cool so yeah like you've got all of these things like potentially okay i can buy into
luke doing these bad things but then he doesn't even get the dignity of doing them he has to
fucking have someone else do them for him that's the ultimate fucking insult of this whole thing
you don't even allow luke to be a bad guy you have to like like show someone else doing it for him
do you think that if they actually had him kill kylo in like a scene like that
where he was just fucking sleeping and managing his own business people realize what a middle
finger character you know what possibly no no no here here here is like you could fix this whole
thing so easily died by just saying okay like snoke was getting into luke's head and he was
starting to like influence him to like want to um take out kylo ren like to be suspicious of
everyone else around him whatever it might be and luke realized the danger that he was in so he
shut himself off on this island and you and he was trying to use the jedi text to find a solution
to this thing to try and find a way to be free of snoke of of all the the like dark side influence
that was like coming in on him that would have fixed that would have fixed fucking everything
it would have given him a purpose it would have given him some agency it would have given him a
reason to fucking be there and it would given a justifiable reason to have closed himself off
from the force and i came up with that in like the five fucking minutes and i'm half fucking pissed
right now yeah ryan johnson couldn't come up with that in like a year while he was sitting there
he went with his fist fucking draft dude he didn't even redraft that's so insulting
i guess the thing you want to take from this is that i'm smarter than ryan johnson
oh my yeah that's a low buff
i wonder if there's like a ryan johnson bobblehead available anywhere so i can just like set it in
my car and whenever i'm angry i know i know for sure there's definitely a ryan johnson too
oh my god i can i don't want ryan johnson's face anywhere near my most treasured regions
i want it i want it so that i can have like when i'm playing dark souls or secaro or something
and i like die i could just be like fuck you ryan and i could slap him in the face and his
head will just go left and right over and over this while we'll get we'll get wolf this is this
is a ryan johnson pizza slicer this is right ryan ryan johnson could have made this all good
if he just said look we tried to do something a bit different with this movie you know we tried
to do something a little bit experimental a little bit different i didn't maybe it didn't work out we
got a lot of our system it'll never yeah what do you what do you mean why is that why is that any
better than the interviewer he said uh he's not heard a single fair criticism because he i would
at least admit that he fucked up no no i think it's better i think it's better as a creator to say
you can never make mistakes i think that's that's really virtuous because that means you're really
good at it ryan johnson you know you know how easy it would be like if people who directed
these movies just were honest for five minutes of their life and just said yeah okay you know i'm
sorry we fucked up a little bit it maybe wasn't what everyone hoped for but we tried our best
i think that's all it would have taken yeah i think he thinks he made a really good movie
that's what that's beautiful thing about it if you're the problem is so good
if you're the kind of person who would go ahead and make the last jedi thinking it's a good movie
is like not as drastic as actually making it do you know does it not blow your mind though that
people like fair enough ryan johnson wrote this and you know that was his first draft of the
script or whatever but like sensible adults like us looked at this and said yeah it's fine
just look at what everyone's looking for Lucas i'm firmly in the camp that many of the people
similarly to season eight game of thrones many of the people including cast and production crews
and whatever they are too busy worrying about everything else such as am i performing this
scene correctly have i got the snow right on these sets have i got the costumes correct
if someone says hey by the way john snow dies by sneezing himself in a toilet they'd be like oh
we got to make sure that toilet looks great and someone goes don't you think that's and it's like
don't you think that sounds ridiculous it's like oh maybe i don't know i fucking i got other things
to do i gotta focus on dying through a poo but there must be people who like their only job
is just like kind of try and maintain the consistency of the story well that's that's
that's the thing there must be though like you know i agree i think from our point of view like
there must be people within these studios like they just they they look at this stuff and you
know in some part of their minds they must be like look ryan you know this is a great story
that you've written but people gonna ask questions about x y and z maybe you should rewrite it i'm
gonna need answers they're gonna ask us questions ryan we're gonna need answers give us answers
what do we tell the people ryan please please surely when there's this much when there's this
much money at stake they're not just gonna go with the first fucking draft that they get ryan
that's where you're wrong kiddo yeah there's one of the biggest mentalities they had with going
into it is how many toys will we be able to sell from this not many because you know all the kids
want the rose tico toy oh my god dude have you seen there's a holdo toy it comes with the pistol
i was like who would buy that why would you buy it so embarrassing well remember when she pulls
it out when she's been taken into custody as part of the mutiny she just has a pistol
yeah that's a kind of a failed mutiny if you let the person i'd like to remind everybody
the tlj is not very good don't you don't you have a break don't you have a place where you
can put prisoners you know it's it's it's nice that we're going back to og tlj and we're just
it feels it actually feels nostalgic like we're visiting an old friend
like this is old hat for you guys but this is something that i've needed to get out of my
system for like we we've talked more about tlj than any other piece of content but we've had a
big gap so it feels good to get back into talking about how fucking terrible i said this to you more
the other day like the last jetta is a perfect example of writing yourself into a corner
and then using an absolute bullshit excuse to try and get yourself out of it and then writing
yourself into another corner as a result i upset a lot of people who like this film when i said
that they should use tlj in writing classes to teach how not to write a script they were like
how dare you i was like no no no seriously it's got it's got almost all of the like hallmark
terrible pieces of writing be it character wheel building or plot it's all in there
great you could learn a lot from tlj about what not to do i i've said i've said this to people
wait go again one of you
go go man all right isn't it just force awakens mostly the fucks the world building though
no well this is the thing you can you can you can accept that your world is fucked or you can try
and fix it tlj just said nah fuck we fucked i i would have been fine with to sorry with um
force awakens the world because it doesn't it's so boring and they just do it again
that same thing just oh okay here's my thing like a really good um second movie in this trilogy
could have fixed most of the problems that were present in the the force awakens i can agree with
that but would you say that you can fix uh both of them in a theoretical incredibly written episode
nine do you think that's possible i don't think so i like it based on what we have based on what
we have now yeah could could you could you say given infinite money in time write an episode nine
that fixes everything well well well well it wakes up and it was all a dream yay yeah we did it we
saved the star wars well i am brainy as fuck um even then i'd be struggling honestly i'm one of
the people who says no uh i don't think there's this fucking chance in hell episode nine can be
good like it's so one i genuinely applied my writing brain to this one and just thought like
okay where would i go with this what would i do to try and fix this and i could probably put it
right to some extent but i couldn't give you a good satisfying conclusion to the the story
you know it's a horrible circumstance one movie you're dealing with a whole bunch of characters
that you need to develop in their finale it's like what the hell and it's like also you need
to have a convincing story that you have to develop because there's nothing to work with
i if it was up to me i would kill off either fin or poe i would kill off rose i would um
give ray the like a proper defeat at the hand at the hands of kylo ren and the knights of ren um
um so the knights of ren even still exist though i would potentially make luke a false
like fucking clone or some shit i'd be like there's a real luke that got captured and taken away
at that point though you just yeah you just knew there was all a dream fuck it
yeah it kylo i heard you snoring really loud in here and i came in to check on you just to see if
everything was okay yeah i think things are fine this weird dream man all right i'm gonna go back
to the inside now you see in the morning guys it was luke having a moment of weakness it was
extremely well written you just you just hate women is this is this where we need to actually
watch this video and try and see what this guy's yes you know all props to this guy i don't think
the first half was all that bad at all it's the second half that i'm more concerned with so
it's the second half where we can't get past five seconds without having to
deconstruct everything wrong with it is the fact that luke's arc throughout the movie is actually
focused on and followed through on a good chunk of the movie and when i say a good chunk i mean
the only good chunk is the stuff with him ray and kylo oh right fucking good chunk is the credits
at the end so uh the connection between kylo and ray is really fucking disappointing because she
basically gets over the fact that he killed haunting cold blood in like one phone call
and for no reason it's really fucking bad and then luke flipping out that they're talking to
each other we never really understood why that even happened it was just like don't talk to people
you're like okay it's because she was platforming kylo to signal boosting kylo's politics
i've got i've got a question for you guys like in your heads like
try and make this play out can you make a mentor character also go through the hero's journey
iron man hmm who well infinites he becomes a mentor after he's completed his
hero's journey what is what most people might argue but you could also argue that he's
who does he become a mentor to spider-man spider-man yeah but that's like three movies
but i've been talking like three movies yeah that yeah we call that a trilogy star wars is
known for those yeah but like try and break that out into one movie which is what oh you're saying
is it possible to do in one movie uh it's possible yeah if you have a good writer i was gonna say
it's tough that's yeah that's where the skill comes in like that's the thing how can you how can you
balance that though how can you balance a guy who seemed who a mentor who should know kind of
everything um and and it's just prevented from taking the next step because they're so most of
the strong stories about mentors they usually have something to learn or something that they
haven't gotten over there's a lot of stories about mentors that haven't quite they think
that maybe they're they're completed in their journey but they haven't okay can you can you
but can you mesh that with the idea of a guy who's
like who who somehow needs to learn a whole lot more yeah well if you segment the things being
taught and so he has a really good understanding of the things he's teaching his student yet on the
other side there are things that he's still trying to figure out that might be somewhat
disconnected to his capacity of being a good mentor that he's still going through and it could
be perhaps i don't know a revenge thing or he has a grudge or something like that um actually
someone said uh will i kind of like pursuit of happiness yeah i actually might have that in
like i'm i don't this isn't i actually might have this in my novel that's coming out tomorrow
where the mentor is going through a um you don't know yet it's coming out tomorrow and you don't
know yet oh fuck why is your noble cold sir well what's your name i gotta be in what is your mystery
chat chat plug plug away do it plug plug i didn't intend i didn't intend to plug it but
there's a character who um acts as a mentor type figure who actually has a uh a very distinct arc
of his own that he has to work with him so there you go i didn't realize put it in that perspective
no but let me ask you a question does the story pay proper respect to the experiences that that
character has had in his life oh yes very well i mean of course i'm biased you might be biased
that's true right here here's the problem right this is this is where the last jade falls apart
in many different ways it tries to make look out as a combination of a mentor who has been there
and done that before but also who has loads to learn and doesn't really know where he's going
or what he's all about you can't have those two fucking things in the same character it doesn't
work someone feel free to jump in and like correct correct me on that one but like wait
so what do you think of the two conflicting elements exactly they don't work you you have
to pick one or the other like luke could have been an interesting character if he was uh a wise
mentor who taught ray some interesting insights into the jedi or the force or herself or whatever
it was and even like taught her a bit of humility by beating her down at one point whatever it might
be or he could have been a character who was deeply flawed and needed someone to to help him
out and to see him on the correct path or whatever either of those things would have been fine but
you can't do fucking both at the same time it creates a complete conflict well what about this
what about if um luke has has lost faith in the way of the jedi he gets this upstart
person who comes along who shows huge potential and there's some type of event that makes him
decide okay look i don't fully believe in this stuff but i can see the benefit in teaching you
you might be able to do some good and then in the act of teaching her he rediscovers the value
of the jedi way and then those two elements are combined and he refines you know and finds that
being a jedi is good this is like this is why i needed to do it and i need to keep teaching
more people to be able to understand the force could they combine that way that would be fine
but you would need an entire movie to do it i thought that was your premise is it possible
to do it within a movie no well like the way they've structured it within the last jedi
it's not possible to do it because they only get like 10 of the screen time
time like luke's scenes with with ray are like a tiny little afterthought in the larger scheme of
things that's going on and that's that's not enough it's not enough character development
it's not enough time for any of this stuff to play out it doesn't there's time it's about manage
it's about time management i mean a good writer can make even the dumbest thing in the world
seem pretty good but a bad writer can't make the best seem well i think you can assume what ryan
johnson is well yeah well wait wait wait wait three hours you could easily walk to her he puts
the odds in autism you've got a character that is a complete contradiction he he's either a mentor
who knows everything and he's going to impart that but a mental doesn't have to know everything
like for example it's going to be quicker okay so okay so like a guy who's lind let's say uh why
you should help people why you should save people and why you should use the power you have over
people for good he knows all of those lessons but he doesn't know why you should fight for the
religion slash cult slash group slash whatever encouraging area of people he's gone back on that
now his mental the person he's trying to teach is like okay i'm super strong why should i care
about anyone else he can teach them about that but that he's still uh degraded in terms of why
you can you can fight for the innocent okay but why should no no no fine fine fine fine
you can do that but then he's got to teach that character a lesson that character has to fail in
some way and he has to pick them up and show them the way but that never happens with ray it's
never i thought you said i thought you were arguing whether or not it's possible because
we all agree tlj is a fucking mess it's well it's really difficult to do two things that are
completely contradictory i don't know that they're they are from my point of view because you've
either got a character who's got wisdom to impart or they got wisdom to learn why can't they be both
because then you've got a contradictory character who you don't know what they're supposed to what
their role is supposed to be in the story i was just good at one thing and not good as i was
gonna say you know you we all agree here that you can learn more than one lesson in life right
what if you've learned one you can impart that lesson to someone else but you still have lessons
to learn okay but but then where do you go with that there's loads of lessons you have to learn
this is the problem like you've got look who doesn't go anywhere okay that's not a concept
that's an issue with the execution of the idea they had well this is my problem with it like
yeah the movie shit that kind of level yeah we we agree though the tlj did it yeah i think we all
agree the last jedi sucked yeah what they did but it's not just that like i want to i want to get
into the reasons why there's a problem with it you know i don't just want to say like oh it's a
shit movie like that that's good enough so what i believe us we've definitely covered all what
i for years now what i feel like you want to say is something along the lines of luke is teaching
you why she should fight for people while being a person who needs to learn why you should fight
for people that would be a contradiction um but pretty much but i don't think that's what's
happening and that wouldn't that's not what we're arguing for we're arguing for he teaches a less
than he needs to learn a different lesson my issue is like he he's almost portrayed as a character
who's back in the right stop there he's almost portrayed as a character yeah almost yeah he's
almost portrayed as a character like back in the the sort of realms of um a new hope where he's
clueless and he needs to learn something he needs to learn something that's going to be taught to
him by someone else right and the person that's going to teach him that thing is ray and that's
completely wrong she shouldn't be teaching him things because she doesn't fucking know anything
she is younger than him she's less experienced than him she doesn't know this stuff she shouldn't
be able to impart that kind of wisdom on him because he should be there before her the thing
that brings to mind for me is a mentor can often be cynical and then when you have someone who's
not learned anything they're very idealistic and they can inspire a mentor who's cynical
that's the kind of thing yeah totally but there has to be reciprocation there they each have to
learn something from each other yeah i agree but we're talking about a potential not what tlj did
right because again we all agree that tlj did shit well i guess that's where i'm going like i'm going
if that's the case we all agree i think okay fair enough um but a film in which a mental i was just
gonna say a film in which a mentor imparts wisdom upon a student and through that process learn
something from the student that changes them as a mentor i almost would consider that to be a great
potential story because that's usually it's much more interesting for the men for us to see the
mentor as a character as opposed to an all-wise all-knowing creature there are good movies that
have done that like yeah like finding forest or i think did that quite well actually kung fu panda
yeah a lot of people a lot of people referencing kung fu panda last avatar last airbend the last
strike it so is everyone ready to continue oh god yeah we're watching a video
follow through on a good chunk in the movie and when i say a good chunk i mean the only good chunk
is the stuff with him ray and kylo while he teaches ray things about the force she helps
him come to grips with his own failures and it really takes a while i don't think she
helps him come to grips with his own failures at all she basically just she says to him
that uh it's not his fault that kylo turned out the way he did and then she realizes from kylo
that it kind of is and then is that that's not really concluded she says it's not too
late to save him and luke is like lol you're an idiot and then luke does uh yeah but remember
more no one's no one's ever well yeah uh so what i find odd here is that this guy seems to have
dealt quite deep into thor's sort of ins and outs in endgame highlighting issues but he's
he's totally glossing over luke's story in this and taking all of like vague beats to try and
create a sort of storyline that wasn't necessarily uh there it's almost it's almost like he's
projecting which is odd because he said he didn't like the last jedi so i don't know why
yeah but when you've got a point you want to make in a youtube video and you've got like a
lot of your advertising revenue on the line i mean there's a controversial position to take
right to say that uh tlj did something right that uh the mcu was trying to achieve so what is his
what is his fundamental point about like look well i'm assuming we'll get to that in the last
third or so ray ray helps him come to terms with his failures apparently which i i would
love qualification for because i disagree completely this this pisses me off as well
because she shouldn't have anything to do with his failures she's even fucking over the context
of him outside of flashback recants that are all different like you know we've all done things in
our lives that we're not proud of like i've done horrible things um but like you you don't need some
random outsider to come in i did once throw up on a stripper in the middle of private dance
but i'm not going to go into that um monster the point is right you you don't like to have some
random outsider character come in and tell you you know the things you did were okay or like
help you make peace with the things you did it's so fucking presumptuous it's so fucking arrogant
you shouldn't do that that's not a thing that well yeah she's got no insight uh for his life
those events other than him telling her what happened and then kylo telling her what happened
and then she tells luke kylo's not completely gone and he's like lol stupid how do you describe
that series of events how do you describe that series of events as her telling him to overcome
his failures or whatever like it's like come on she gives him yoda is more responsible for that
than she is and like i have to ask all of you guys right you know when uh luke and uh ray had a bit
fight with their staffs and ray beats him down was was there a part of you inside that just died
when that happened don't get me started on ray's fighting skills i've seen those videos they're
wonderful i don't i don't care about fighting stuff but like oh yeah think about the character
dynamic here right this is this would be like in fucking karate kid or something when daniel
loruso questions mr miyagi and then beats the shit out of and then then walks away
like that that doesn't work but there has to be a moment where the mentor shows how strong they are
and how much the the the the teach the sorry the pupil has still to learn
you have to give that but like even then this fucking shitty screenplay won't even give luke
that that's what pisses me off because it undermines the basic fundamentals of storytelling
there does need to be a point in the film or in the story where the audience is made very much
aware that this person is the mentor for a reason they're worthy respect they are powerful there
there's a reason they're the one doing the teaching
because if the audience doesn't respect the character that the protagonist is supposed to
be respecting well that's not that's not going to gel it doesn't mesh
it's very good anyway kicking on teaches ray things about the force she helps him come to
grips with his own failures and it really takes a while for him to process and recover from said
failures thor is fine after one conversation with his mother so that's where a comparison
comes in i guess thor is rejuvenated after one conversation while luke is faced with his issues
over the course of several scenes and overcome but i i wouldn't say thor is fine though he has
a lot of crap to work through still well it comes back to like but then why why why does he have that
what do you mean like as in well like bearing in mind everything he's been through in the past
three movies should you really still be struggling with certain like this or is this just artificially
constructed in order to give him a kind of arc within this movie is it i think it's case
dependent because thor is dealing with some pretty heavy stuff about sorrow loss and all that stuff
and that can take years to overcome and so that would be honestly up to the rider to to choose
and then to try and convey it in a realistic way um and the chat he had with his mother i saw that
his mother was giving him that needed boosted encouragement if there's anyone who can have
an emotional kind of effect on anyone it's going to be their mum if they have a close relationship
especially this is the mum that is for a lot has been has been dead for a while yeah that's the
other element is she's been dead so that's going to have a powerful impact on him and then when he
tests you know him being able to grab the hammer and that the hammer still finds him worthy i
reckon like with with the dark place he was in for a very long time that i don't think it fixed any
like his whole thing but it certainly would have given him the encouragement to keep on going and
being ready to fight because if you remember the scene following that where he finally decides that
he's going to be the one to do the snap he's still very awkward very like hmm you know i'll
do it i i it's me like i have the one who fucked up i didn't even say he needed to do it yeah he
needs it like he's clearly needed to feel yeah this is what i mean it'll be a disservice if they
treat him as though he's absolutely fine in guardian three it's like there's clearly something
going on with him and i have faith that james gunne will push on with making thor deal with the
fact that he's almost kind of and kind of glossed over the events of everything that's happened so
far and then he needs to come back to it but again this is dependent on how they take it forward i'm
kind of at that point with it um but anyway comparing it to luke i just i don't even yeah
and thor is not fine that's the kind of the thing with well you know just referring back to the video
we're watching yeah i didn't and we'll see we'll see if there's some more uh
reporting evidence station with his mother luke meanwhile is constantly drowning in his grief
he only agrees to train ray after careful contemplation and talking to art he agrees
to trade ray after careful contemplation what do you why is he brushing over his stuff
fuck like this is the kind of shit that drove me to drink in the first place
it drove me to drink critically christ uh um that was a good scene between it wasn't
going to do with ray the goods but nothing nothing this is like fucking author insertion
fan fiction bullshit like trying to just put your favorite character into a story you like
you know what made me realize why everyone thinks that's a good scene including myself is the fact
that we this would have been a fine scene in a perfect uh sequel movie the fact that we have to
desperately hope that any of the ot characters get to fucking talk to each other like that's why this
was a ray of hope we were like luke and r2d to get to see each other see it in the cinema like
watching that scene i was like oh shit this is where it's going to kick in this is where we're
going to get a little bit of luke and and uh being the the character he used to be the
the person we used to love and it's over within like 30 seconds oh you and your thoughts there
and he's back to being like this miserable grumpy drunk asshole and you know how i feel
about that sort of thing how do you feel about that sad it makes me sad what is what is the
r2 and luke's enough to do with ray i honestly want to know i'm tempted to check the script
like what is it that they say to each other that even has anything to do with ray
see here this is this is this is the problem like if you took ray out of all this nonsense
you could have an amazing script like if you count the protagonist the script will be better
r r2 convinces luke to like go back like he gives him like the the hologram of princess lay and
stuff back in a new hope convinces him to be the man he used to be and like get get his shit
together and just go for it and he does like imagine what kind of movie that would have been
if we didn't have ray involved if we didn't have all this nonsense with kylo ren this is what
people actually want from the star wars movies they want the original characters they want that
nostalgia they want these connections and they don't get any of it with the the new movies
and it's like it pisses me off because like it's all there you could you could create any of that
with any of these actors who are willing to do all this you could have had a scene
where akbar throws holdo out the airlock we could have seen that i would have been happy with that
oh he's so great but ironically is it is it not part of you guys that just
just feels pissed off that the wasted opportunities that they had you know is that a great question
i i wish that instead of holdo ramming it that akbar just pointed his finger at holdo and he
was like she's a trap and then they grew up here oh sorry just a fan in chat said this is not their
trilogy they're old as a reference to what people say i fucking hate when people say that it's like
this is not their time they as characters of moon i was like just because you're old doesn't mean
you can't fucking learn something or have a story what the fuck like not you know once you hit 30
your life is basically over this is like this is like rocky like you know creed is over you know
you're just there to you're just old fuck off and die they clearly hate old people
yeah the oppression is real god like it the but you know this incredible stories with people
the older actors is all the that's the only reason we watch these movies
dude do you any of you guys watch the star wars movies because you care
about ray ray or or kylo i gotta find out what happens to rose tico her story is really riveting
i hope that she dies of like a horrible brain hemorrhage or something at the beginning of
episode nine yeah she thought the trailers yeah gives us hope smashing into um who's the
black guy fin his ship i just forgot his character for a second yeah i i hope that she's like horribly
paralyzed from like the neck down or something i think she's horribly paralyzed everyone everyone
in chat is right logan was a bad film because logan's old and you shouldn't have had a story
logan's too old he's 90 old indeed well i canned off the gay and off the old getting rid of him
well he is technically gay and old the actor is that is true yeah you know that picard series
they're trying to do why he's old stop it he's old fuck i can't wait to see them rape the corpse
of picard like and lando don't forget lando we got plenty to rape god god you can ruin all
the old people so much so much rapage going on it's awful let's let's kick on we agree someone's
gonna take that out of context completely it's plenty to rape someone's just going to say we
have plenty to rape today like tomorrow 29th like the old quote i have not yet begun to rape
i'm gonna own that quote 100 careful contemplation and talking to artoo in a really beautiful scene
it doesn't feel like cheap fan service at all yeah yeah does they literally use they literally
use the fucking mess how is that not fan service it doesn't feel like cheap fan service really
but if it works i don't think there's anything wrong with cheap fan service well this is the
thing i'm actually not against fan service as a whole but the idea that this isn't fan service
like when you were designing this scene where r2d2 shows a 30 years on disheveled luke the message
that got him into the fight in the originals and you you're not in any way thinking oh yeah the
fans will fucking love this you're lying to me imagine like imagine though if you treated this
scene with the proper respect it deserved like ryan johnson actually like wrote it properly into
the script how good would it be dude can you i want to go to the timeline i want to go to the
timeline where we say the sequel trilogy is better than the ot all right it just pisses me off man
i'll see those there's like so so many wasted opportunities do you think there's anybody who
unironically thinks that force awakens in tlj are better than the original three yeah there are
yeah i think there are yeah you imagine being that devoid of a brain there's there's three
kinds of peoples who who do that there's like people who just fucking love star wars no matter
what it is there's there's people who are literally too stupid to understand the problems of it
and there are people who what there are people who love the the sort of progressive messaging
of it and just latch onto that and they don't care about the actual storytelling of it
and that's it that's the only people who love this stuff hello hello hi hi
let us let us see with the message because that's the best scene in the whole movie
i know it is he just he said wait so jay what's your take on this he said it's not fanservice
i don't care if it's fanservice that's another question that's another question i didn't ask
that fucking piece of shit trying to die i don't know my take is yes it is but it's still i love
the shit out of it like when when i see something being called fanservice i think like oh it's being
called that because it's just like because to try and identify the motivations rather than anything
and i don't know what the fuck ron johnson was thinking for any of the scripts so i would not
be able to tell you if it was fanservice you've got a character arc for tljx i feel like what i
met you you thought it was 50 50 right i thought it was fine yeah i thought it was fine and the more
i think about it then i'm like the fuck you see that was kind of this is interesting because
on the surface level if you don't take into the the previous movies what was established and what's
important to maintain about the previous characters and you were to just look at the last jedi
as if it was a movie by itself well nothing before or after there are elements that are enjoyable oh
no there are fun parts in it like some of the jokes you could laugh at and some of the visuals
are really spectacular and so it's just when you look at it deeper you're like holy crap what
happened and then if you look at the plot holes for me the one and only high point of of the last
jedi was when hodl ramder ship into the the you know first order it looks great and it had a big
oomph right but then it also undermines the canon oh exactly like visually it's very impressive
and it looks lovely and um you you have that moment in the cinema where you're like holy
shit like this is cool but then you actually start to apply your brain yeah that doesn't last long
enough does it yeah i've i've taken you all as role models by the way and come back with a big drink
i've drank a lot when we first met jay he thought women were okay after spending time on the path
he sees with an undying hatred horrible creatures it's just meant for me now we penetrated the
um impenetrable forest of jay's brain jay jay i have to ask you a question like you're in the
uk at the moment where where place are you i'm in lemington spa oh god lemon i know i say
i don't want to talk to you anymore oh i don't want to be here bye goodbye j
you guys take j hashtag kick j is ready to fucking lemington spa i know
inflation and talking to artu in a really beautiful scene that doesn't feel like cheap
fan service at all it's a touching moment he second guesses himself over and over about whether or not
he should be training ray and rejoining the fight forget it he's immovable the move what you just said
right he shouldn't be second guessing himself i thought that he wasn't guessing himself second
guessing himself at all the only agreement to teach ray was to teach her why he's right
let let's let's play this out right let's take it in the context of the original trilogy imagine
if obi one can be was like constantly second and guessing himself about whether or not he
trained luke and luke beat the shit out of uh of obi one can obi and and constantly proved
himself to be better than him where would that take the fucking movie anyone should get on in
this guy oh bayowin finished the sausage raider wait the what well well don't worry we've got
we've got a selection of memes we'll go because that's that's one of my many nicknames so i'm very
very interested in what he has here how do you read a sausage oh wait go on go on with the thing
we will we we will definitely oh my god it's awesome we will definitely go over all the memes
uh once once we're at that portion i supposed to carry on with what who was talking i forget
mind is falling apart right now i was told i was having a rant about this shit carry on ignore
all these massive what what the hell though was i even saying yeah i don't know like imagine if
obi one can obi from the original trilogy was going on the same kind of character journey as luke
in this film imagine if he was constantly doubting everything he said and everything he did imagine
if he was just riddled with like self-doubt and and insecurity and uh like luke was able to just
beat the shit out of him and prove that he was better than him in every way
like where would that take the fucking story what what would his role be
like it would have undermined any confidence you have in the mentor especially if the student is
beating them the reason why that can't happen with luke is because luke has such an established
backstory that we know we know he's powerful we know he's capable and so that well you wouldn't
know it from this film no exactly if you want to take this film individually you'd be thinking
what's the why does she need a mentor you in this sense um this is it like why does the film not
have the guts to say like well ray needs to learn stuff from someone else well that's why she's a
merry suit and yeah and the fun part is always like name one thing ray learned over the two films and
all you'll ever get is she learned that kylo isn't to be saved and it's like what
it hurts oh your only flaw is being too nice sounds like there's small people in the background you
need to get rid of them right now they're just trying to put input they have thoughts on the last
july 2 okay pretty late for an abortion their brains are too small it's never too late for
no i'm saying that's bad i'm saying yeah i think that's bad
i get flaws for uh i think abortion for a tomb raider reference there it's someone said to
anakin them these are my kids you're talking about those kids you mean younglings younglings
they're called seriously it's like it's pretty late at night like can't can you like chloroform
them or something it's not late for australia it's ten in the morning over here oh fuck you
oh it's only the start of a day all right damn it we're gonna get through this video it's important
to the science training ray are we doing the fight forget it he's immovable the movie makes you feel
that he literally says he came to this island to die which is fucking hate the mind i was kind of
ashamed that he left a fucking storm act to tell where does he say that he does say he said he
says something along the lines of like i came here to die or some shit no no he says like do
you think i came to the most unfindable he mentions die i'm gonna get the quote because
it pissed me off gonna find it maybe he was just saying maybe he was just saying the in german
yeah so ray why not i've seen your daily routine you're not busy luke i will never train another
generation of jedi i came to this island to die it's time for the jedi to end he says that i don't
even remember that what came to this island to die fuck you he's not luke skylight you guys are
right i mean they're like the map you know like what was the point of the map well in fairness
a lot of people have a misconception on that and they're not wrong for coming up with it but a lot
of people say why did luke leave a map to himself it's never confirmed where the fuck that map came
from we have no idea it's a mystery box and it's never answered no didn't they in ways that makes it
if if max moncido says to you like there's a map to this guy you fucking believe him
no of course no there is a map to him it's just that nobody knows who made it and why
the only thing i have to go on because i talk about this in the extended parts of my tfa review
which will be out in 20 76 the uh the idea is that he's gone to place x and there is a map that
takes you to place x and it's like oh so technically that's a map to luke skywalker that is the
if you say place x then it sounds like place x which is i would like to place that well we all
want a bit of place x but we can do that in the intermission the thing is like it makes sense like
he left the map two pieces of the map with two people he didn't leave it though there's no
confirmation that he left it oh fucking like i'm sorry it's just that we have to go with what we're
given and he that map we have no idea where it came from but so like i'll tell you what jj abram
said uh r2d2 has the bigger portion of the map because he accidentally downloaded it when he
put his penis inside the thing in force uh you know when when r2d2 when r2d2 puts his tisms inside
the machines in the he apparently downloaded i'm not even kidding this is a thing i talk about it
it would be less dumb it would literally just be less dumb to say
with r2 because the reason and i'm talking strictly from the movies before chat starts asking why
like why aren't you considering the video games or the books about how he explains it
fucking everybody's got a different account including jj abrams jj abrams initially says
something along the lines of i don't fucking know why he has it he just does and then later on in
interviews he's like oh he has it because he downloaded it when he was tisming around with
the empire stuff in the other films it makes total sense wait we're right we need to do
because they hack writers jay they have no fucking clue what they're doing
but how can you be that thick wait we need to do we need to do something very important right now
we need to discount jj abrams as having any fucking clue about what he's doing fine fine
fine he never has he never ever has about anything he does like he's like oh i will set up a fucking
random mystery and just let people figure it out from there and that's going to be my my
modus operandi fair enough man but like no one else is going to buy into it has anyone even
pointed out that the idea of a space map is really stupid because all you need to know is the end
point yeah i was about to say why don't they just call it coordinates instead of exactly
and they show the map and there's lines between these star systems it's like
but she does one jump to get to where she needs to go that's just you need a
coordinates here you need a location you don't know the planet isn't there when you get there
yeah even if you even if you know that like the rough area can you not like narrow it down
so like the number of planets there i like the idea by the way that they had r2 d2s portion
which is essentially the universe outside of this small block and it's like why don't we search the
small block like what we have the republic on our side said a billion ships and universe
the fucking small block has got to be like millions of stars though to be fair it doesn't
matter how many there are search them they got the republic on this side that's the most power
in the universe none of this none of this answers the question of like why do we even have a map
to get to luke it's not even that's the thing that's not to luke it's to that specific jedi
planet whatever the hell it is but but who made it why that's the that's the fucking thing they
never tell us that's the problem my favorite thing though is like all we have is to assume
that luke made it and he left it there right but i'm going to this place and like if if anyone
ever needs me i'm going to leave the the map coordinates with two people i really trust
and if you combine those two things together you'll find a way to get to me
fine okay he doesn't want to be found apparently the place that he went to was the most
unfindable place like ever except there's a map to it according to ryan johnson yeah i fucking hate
that dialogue by the way unfindable i don't have a map to my apartment it would make sense if there
was this weird nebula or something around the planet that you know blocked hyperspace travel
unless you had to go from one exact specific angle yeah yeah you know yeah nothing like that
established it was just like and it is here well and all you need to do there and if you'd like
luke why did you think that the idea that you'd go to the original jedi temple was some way that
people wouldn't expect you to go and is unfindable and he's just like no what if he was had like an
apartment in kurasan or something he's just on the street what alleyway he's like yeah nobody's
going to look for you it's like he's one person it's a whole city planet you're not going to find
him by accident well i don't know maybe you will you know what would have been what would have
worked quite well is if he was there for an actual specific reason like he was trying to research that
would be great that would be so cool he was trying to reasons for the things that happen in the film
that would be i love that imagine no but imagine no films have reasons for things he was trying to
find like the secret to like stop and snoke from like infiltrating the jedi order or something like
that why would you write that that sounds really boring i prefer that there's no reason for anything
to happen brave and smart yeah but you can see how like you can take that same premise and turn it
into something that's actually workable why you just said it's so fucking easily why you just said
it's even more frustrating as there's quotes from ryan johnson saying like when i was taking up the
reins for jj abrams i had this character who's a hero who's just hidden himself on some you know
distant planet i have to write a reason for why he would have been here for so long and you're with
him for that point yeah yeah and then it's like oh i'm gonna write him so he's a cowardly piece
of shit that wants to kill himself you're like what the fuck yeah fuck it gg gg like just give
me a call and i'll sort it out for you man like people are like there's no there's nothing else
you could do how what else could you possibly write it's like anything else roll the die i'll
take a random outcome i will take that he was kidnapped and captured and put on that island
he was kidnapped by jaw was mistaken for an old he was kidnapped by jar jar big
oh i would just like to point out right for an old back book yeah why just point this out for
five minutes because they scavenge old like machines and stuff so they thought that was
an old mac book why would they because jaw was they don't have good vision
i want to see this version now where it's like
okay well i would take everyone's version over jj jj ol ryan i would take could you
imagine tell me why he's so directed and written tlj oh oh boy dude he'd probably make luke into
a vampire and that would be perfect did you ever hear that story that tommy like really
legitimately wanted the twist of the room to be that johnny was a vampire and like driving
yeah yeah the the twist was going to be that johnny is a vampire i have his flying car off the roof
if that was how the movie was supposed to go but i didn't know why they make that because they didn't
have the budget for it did you didn't have a budget for a pair of prosthetic fangs did you
read the disaster artist yeah yes i have you're tearing me apart that's such a great book
the audiobook is actually voiced by greg sestero and he does like a rock solid
perfect tommy impression yeah i was like uh um a screening of the disaster artist and greg was
there and he oh you're so lucky he did some impressions of tommy and it was fucking spot on
that it's amazing perfect i wish i could have been there i really want to go to a room screening
he used to do every fat movies at some point i just want to tell tommy one day like you have changed
you made me the man that i am today
all of this is because of you all of it look at me i think you would play cool
i think you'd be like oh i'm so i'm so happy that you like my movie that's chewy hi doggy you
could laugh you can cry as long as you don't hurt nobody it's fun man it's very good
i just wanted to say something like really pseudo intellectual to me so i could be like
that is the smartest thing anyone's ever said well the the night is always darkest before the dog
i just be like i love you tommy you hug him yes i can't wait to see big shark that's gonna be
beautiful big shark let's have you guys seen um best fiends or best friends or oh i have not
or i have rather he doesn't have seen not yes i have seen that both of them is it glorious or
is it yes it uh me and a friend were huge fans of it if you uh if you read the disaster artist
you're getting glorious or is it shit you said yes
me and a friend that are really big fans
probably in the room and all that um we went to go see both of them and it was great
uh if you read the disaster artist you get a lot more out of it though it's kind of like
like a lot of the jokes in there you're only going to get if you've read the disaster artist
i'm sorry i just i just fucking spat fucking gin and tonic all over myself at that joke and
i went i went through my fucking nose ooh they sell some rhino milk to counter that dude it's
fine yeah it's fine i should be thinking about rhino milk fuck i'm gonna have to clear this up
what is it it's not gordon's or anything but yes it is brilliant and it is shit in relation to
everything that's just been said including the stuff about john john joe what's the tell me why so
don't question that um and jay do that you can think of johnny front man 242 said jurassic
park thinking face what does that have to do with anything anyone talking about
we've done pretty historic views can you imagine like they take the ashes of the jew
and they like use them to read you can bring them back like they they put and frank in her
own little exhibit and you're just like oh you died once see the jew but then that life finds
away so the jews break out we gotta we're we're up a lot we gotta we gotta play this video a little
bit more to make sure we're still responding to it okay we gotta let's do it this is a valid
response the movie serious gentleman he literally says he came to this island to die which is
heartbreaking it's heartbreaking it's heartbreaking in a way breaks my heart it breaks my you know
you're right jay oh all of my all of my childhoods my heart brain and all of my childhood happiness
and joy and everything about cinema just died with that and i just became like a shriveled husk of a
man that only lives for his next booze he came to this island to die which is heartbreaking
thor agrees to join the mission because there's booze on the ship i actually liked shad's take
on that i have to say oh thank you on that we wanted to do it anyway was that it's shared here
yes i am here i'm just muting myself so the kids don't it's thanks thanks for hanging out by the
way shad i like you so you're a very good man well i like you guys as well it's fun ignoring
your children to instead of hang out with us and talk about star wars chuck off minecraft sit
live in front have fun there go build the castle dad's got to talk about star wars
how many days is it since they've eaten anything oh we we had a we had a face last night actually
like did you know that the carpet is edible children your shoes are not only walking
implements they are food it's really other if you boil them i kind of imagine they're
quite resourceful out there so yeah hungry kids get resourceful shad you're going to
teach your kids to take back the land that you lost to the oh yeah you know i've killed a snake
with a sword and it was a tiger snake one of the most deadly ones in the world so
these are the things you got to do in australia wait you killed a snake with a sword yeah i can't
i just imagine like a dark souls fight with shad in it but he's walking through the street and
then there's a little little snake comes out of the high grass he goes
oh yeah and australia the critters have health mars that's you don't
they have dude they have faces
oh i was talking to multi-stage phases and health bars alternating attack patterns i was talking to
fringy the other night or maybe it was last night i don't know i was talking to fringy at some point
and he showed me like a six meter crocodile and yeah yeah i'm never going to that country
these are the things you just got to deal with here no
why do you see how do you swords guys seriously this is why i like scotland because there's
nothing here that can kill you so shad guns are a thing mate that's how they get you
yeah rip snack tiger snakes king of the monster i'm just waving like oh also there are elephant
snakes there are whale snakes like what what are all these things we even have snake snakes
dragon snakes they can fly and breathe fire
griffin snakes balrog snakes
i imagine the balrogs are just
oh fuck yeah so there's a video he joined the mission no there's not
naga don't lie to me i know there's a video
des he came to this island to die which is heartbreaking
thor agrees to join the mission because there's booze on the ship the moment now he joins the
fight is played off as a joke luke rejoins the fight after he's talked some sense into by
none other than yoda yeah which is so much fucking sense to me is that is that played as any less of
a joke yeah he literally showed him going boom you fucking lube go and help you you dumb fucking
asshole i always love the the red lit media take like why is yoda a crazy asshole why isn't he
normal someone explain that scene to me so like luke's going up to that tree to burn the jedi
temple and then he stops and then he sees yoda and then yoda makes lightning come down to burn
the jedi temple and looks like no i've got to stop this ceiling and then he tries to go tries to go
into it and then it explodes because that's what trees do when they're on fire and then like knocks
someone's ass and yoda's like you're a dickhead
like what was what was luke gonna do was he gonna run in and flap his clothes
what was this scene trying to show us about anyone in this like no fuck it i'm just checking out of
this shit i'm just drinking right now you guys just talk amongst yourselves this is nonsense
it also seems to contradict yoda's character like when yoda is training luke it's all about
the jedi way is the best thing ever you know the jedi gets his strength from the force and he is
fully and now is suddenly happy to burn the mo the jedi sacred text yeah it's like but it's okay
ray knows everything she's no that's actually i've got something for that because i said that
in a video i made on it every few days someone in my comments told me that actually what he meant
was that ray literally just took the jedi texts and you see them in the file right right which is
not that is not precedent to destroy a fucking building that is stupid especially with the
what about those poor caretakers who wake up to the ashes of the fucking thing they're supposed
to maintain they're like wow thanks fucking ghost puppet face uber to come pick us up on
the most comfortable place in the universe i think he's well about look right he reproduced
this he's been on craggy island for like the next like the past 10 years or whatever it is
all the all he's had is those jedi texts has he never read them has he never like looked at them
or anything yeah you'd think you'd want a reader's digest or something if you're just stuck on an
island for the rest of your life if there's no pornhub or anything like you've got to have something
man like he does he does have something yeah he might have done some things with the frog people
and the no no no i know the alien team and they squeeze out your eggs it's the sea cows
yeah the sea cows he might have done a lot that's not gonna come from nowhere i can tell how they
look at him and it's the same way that like my girlfriends used to you literally couldn't have
cut off at a better time you just all you said was the same way my girlfriends dot dot but yeah
like what has he been doing all this time like if he's not read the text like why would he leave
them there why do we why would he care about them if he doesn't even know what imagine yoda had said
no no no no the books there with ray and then luke is like but but there was like a secret
worshipping building and yoda's like but the books weren't there like yoda that's it's not
just about the books yoda and yoda's like hmm that represents the jedi right there
oh all of this comes back to my previous point about like luke is supposed to be the like
dignified mentor and he's treated like a fucking clueless clown like agree like do you not see the
disconnect in this script like there is no mentor there is no like archetype in this story because
he's not allowed to be what he needs to be he he's just a useless asshole yeah and he defeats the
main villain by projecting himself temporarily saying that there's like no hope to save him
and then lull by and this would be one of the many reasons why i think this script is a big
pile of bullshit yeah as carswell just said i blew up your church but it's okay because the bible was
okay well then yoda you piece of shit jesus drunken ghost puppet frog also why yoda like
why isn't opie one canopie you know what's the spirit of
do you remember that meme with like uh duke who's head on a spider body
like like the whole no one's ever really gone yeah really that's a thing that could legitimately
happen and then luke is like what the fuck he's like i'm good now okay
and ryan johnson's like well he wouldn't see it coming would they
that's supposed to your expectations i did separate them so fucking hard
it's interesting i think from the video we're watching the main gripe that the guy seems to
have is that he didn't like thor's reasons for joining up because he just saw that it was for
beer and that might have sent him down this rabbit hole right well so i think this video
would have been way better if it was just a criticism of thor in endgame because to say
that luke was well handled in tlj in any way shape or form is just a disaster yeah doesn't go doesn't
go well doesn't doesn't lead to good places i can imagine the ghost of general grievous going up
to luke and saying general canopie just doesn't understand it at all yeah he can't actually tell
the difference between people i'm just picturing several several force ghosts several force ghosts
turning up and several they'll be like oh we're not necessary which who are you luke no i never
met you oh fuck sorry that's quite a guy they never met who can also do that who are you i'm i'm
tim like uh why god is like what's going on so i thought i'd just show up why god's like hanakin
you need no wait you're who are you he's like i'm the son of the guy that you taught he's like oh
and then vader's ghost is and he's like hanakin how did everything go after phantom oh i just
shows up i was like i'm so glad the empire was destroyed
the older force ghosts are catching up and teaching each other lessons luke is just sitting there like
guys this about me i don't know no one gives a shit about you luke not the fuck up luke
you don't even want to be a jedi anymore yeah get back to milking that sea cow luke
moment when he rejoins the fight is played off as a joke luke rejoins the fight after
he's talked some sense into by none other than yoda another great scene in spite of how bad that
puppet is i'm still not over that no great scene fuck you sorry whatever oh it's disgusting no you
and by the way luke rejoining the fight is a hologram instead of in person
first of all his whole ship is underwater no okay number one that's the fucking film's choice you
can't say that that's just a thing because like first off his whole ship was underwater
on dagaba too but that didn't stop him now did it under a swamp which is more damage than water by
the way this this is the kind of shit that pisses me off right so he messed up one time okay and he
failed one of his pupils and that pupil went on to kill all the people in his is jedi temple and do
all this kind of bad stuff by himself off his own bat and that's all on luke apparently and that
was enough to drive him into exile for like 10 years and do nothing and like just give up on
everything fuck off you know the i really hate that shit when so let's say for example a theoretical
guardians 3 uh shad is like i can't wait to see uh thord's story and it thord dies in the opening
five minutes he's just dead and then shad is like wow they they've completely wasted his story and
i argue to shad well they can't do anything with this story he's dead it's like that's the fucking
film that killed him it's not that stupid he could have just had the fucking ship on the different
piece of the island that story is arbitrary god i hate it when they fucking make that argument it's
like no we could have just had the shit why is it that the ship covered in water means he can't use
it the whole reason they showed it was to make us think that he was actually showing up there
personally it's like no it's not actually that that made everyone think that he was going to
fly over to them because he still had the x-wing no no like you you couldn't look at that and be
like well that shit was underwater for 10 years or whatever yeah that'll be fine that'll fly
but it's star wars we could totally see i was going to say they could totally get away with that
i could have bought the idea of him like having a change of heart and getting on the the millennium
falcon and flying away with re or whatever but this was just nonsense like can i ask something
go ahead you mean can you ask two things hang on can you hear me right now you've already
asked something that was a question that was a question you said that i accidentally pulled
the fucking cord out of my mic oh wow that's that's tough shit isn't it why did it why did
look parka's x-wing underwater did you say sex wing you sound like you're closer to your microphone
j calm down i am i am closer to my microphone don't uh well actually i moved my microphone
closer to me to plug the cord back in in a way j i don't like the sensation i don't think i wouldn't
imagine there was any particular reason for it just because it looked cool underwater so did you
swim out of it oh yeah by the way there is some logic i'm not saying this is true right this is
something to consider if you can survive the vacuum of space the pressure of air trying to get
in yes should be able to survive underwater it's not unheard of to think that if it's designed to
be in like a no pressure no atmosphere environment and keep people alive inside i'm not a sign i'm
not a scientist so i don't know the specifics of that that's a very different environments
because water is can potentially be very high pressure well that's that's the thing it's
complicated i don't think it's the same it's easily parked on a cliff above that's why that's
that's why go out of it and then just like yes it just has like also also you could easily establish
that x-wings can function underwater you could just say that that's why blobfish die if you take
them out of water it's because they've not got the pressure to hold them together anymore they're
literally held together by the pressure i've had a lot i've had a lot of drinks okay jay has been
holding that knowledge in his head for years now just waiting for the right time is this the
point where we have to debate how the the bombs like fall out of those like fucking bombers
fuck them well hang on there there is a possible answer that even though it is mostly dumb it's
that the ships the ships have a gravity generator of some kind and so the gravity on the ships could
have accelerated the bombs and then once they're in motion because they're in space they just
continue then the bombs at the bottom would even then even then it doesn't work top and they crash
into each other even then it doesn't work i've got i've got this one like they're above the planets
orbiting above the planet okay but that's not the angle that they're acting comparison to the planet
it is though there's no it's not it's not what you get it's not the planet is i'm sure when you
look down you see a planet below it's to the right of them it's to the right it's to yeah
it's off to the side it's not to directly below uh i withdraw my point then fuck it
yes fuck it i'm not my desperate attempt to make it feel less what were we talking about i'm not
going to try and defend it what was the point of the video what point were we supposed to be addressing
forgotten i forgot
something about what were we supposed to be covering three videos today yes there is a third video to
cover but unless i'm going to rewind him and we'll let him to them instead of in person first of all
his whole ship is underwater right so that's not a reason fuck you yeah and also you know
there are certain conditions in which things actually preserve better underwater than
logs yeah like and also there are swords that they find in water that are still intact well not
when i say intact they're still rusted and found a way to link this to swords everybody exactly
um but they know they survive um and were able to find them because they were in water and sometimes
it's because they're also immersed in the mud but there are other so there's conditions in which it
can survive but if this is seawater that can be worse anyway no no i i understand there's
plenty of murder weapons that i've tried to dispose of and they've ultimately discovered like used down
the line like you can't throw it in your sink no no it's like you throw it into the local like
river and you think i was gonna get washed away but it doesn't it gets preserved and then there's
gonna be some asshole on youtube that goes like uh magnetic fishing with it they get it and then
that's it you're nailed the ship didn't have to be underwater the fact that it is doesn't mean it's
unusable he is wrong wrong wrong let's see what his next point is all right and can we talk about
how badly ray is photoshop turns to that image no literally no you she's literally standing up
at a different angle to the fucking images yeah she's that powerful and by the way luke rejoining
the fight is a hologram instead of in person first of all his whole ship is underwater second it's
perfectly reasonable considering what if what if that's high tide what if that low tide it's okay
so he said something interesting here it was perfectly reasonable for him to appear as a
hologram because of the grief he's experiencing i don't think that this man is a therapist how
do these things follow how do you why exactly why would grief prevent you from wanting to appear
in person i like listen doc i think i'm depressed i'm down i've been upset my life is just in
shambles now and the therapist turns to you and he says so can you force project yourself
wow is that how sad you are
the five stages of grief the five is projections like acceptance anger
force brings a whole new meaning to projection right
i'm sure this guy's a really nice guy i'm just like are you i mean are you i like i kind of like
his editing and his humor i mean in fairness shed a lot of idiots nice people hello i'm still i'm
still happily say that this video wasn't so bad i just i feel like he's desperately trying to make
tlg the good guy in this argument and it's just not working like no because it has to fit his sort
of his structure of the island good one and then like why didn't you just make a video complaining
about thor's uh you know endgame portrayal why did why did you have to bring why it's still j
versus thing gets more people to click it damn it j stop stop it you're making him seem like a badman
that's not like you jay jay you're uh you're unusually charitable yeah jason like you
i'm quite alcohol at the moment i've i've drunk too much i'm instead of in
it's under water no too much it's perfectly reasonable because i've never i've never i'm
being imbibed on a oh do you not drink jay i do but i've actually i've not drunk for fucking
brags have you drunk or not today i'm not i had a beer i just finished one you gotta join join me
j and critical it's the last one i had well to be fair it's like half one in the morning here in the
uk so if you're not drunk there's something seriously i was about to say that's that's nice
and early to begin drinking yes anyway continue whole ship is underwater second it's perfectly
reasonable considering the grief he's experienced whether he's physically there or not really
the source of his grief in kylo if i text somebody it's not quite the same as being there in person
listen to that again he's experienced whether he's physically there or not he's still confronting
the source of his grief whether he's there or not he's still confronting it this is in the list of
arguments for why he's projecting it whether he's there or not it's like so that's an argument for
both of them not for one over the other why are you bringing that up yeah and he's making that
he's trying to say that these two things are equivalent when no being physically there means
he can actually physically try and stop kylo from doing so like being physically there is obviously
a far more valuable and honestly it's far more show it it's more of a show of character yeah
hey are you okay well is someone gonna die right here
you don't stand drinking he's not he's not had a life of drinking like me and you
if someone's going to die it may as well be that's the man's side fits a drinker in his name
this this is an argument though like you can apply to anything it's like whether it makes
sense or not like well it's in the movie it sounds like what he's saying is a response to someone
saying uh that it's fucking that it's not him confronting his grief like no whatever it is
that he's confronting his grief he's confronting this before um i like what you said so try and be
generous like luke is confronting kylo at least in some way but i don't think that is equivalent as
if he was there that's my son if he was there personally you should probably feed him or
something no he was voicing his agreement well he's like that's right if he comes to kylo
as a projection he's not in any danger of anything happening to him it's completely risk-free
almost like he literally dies from it he's he's maximized something that kills him
he merges with the force that's like yeah he doesn't die from the strings
well no i mean that's what the film tells us that happened right because
remember when kylo is like you're not doing this the the street would kill you yeah
but whatever whatever this film establishes as rules like it doesn't matter it is just nonsense
like it could apply to anything you know you've got like hyperspace tracking and stuff you've got
like cloaking devices that apply to you naming all the reasons why this movie sucks yeah like
you've got a million and one things that apply or don't apply depending on what the script demands
like it's nonsense has missed a bad dude highlight why didn't this train kill snoke because snoke is
super op when the plot wants him to be melj yeah so i'm not i don't i'm not satisfied that
the projection was the thing that killed luke obviously they're trying to say that it did
but it doesn't make sense well what do you think it was a broken i don't know because he
merged with the force that seems to be jedi's you do that when they're designed they do that
when they're fucking bored with life yeah i'm done now i'm going that's how they commit suicide
like why did obi what it was just a crossfade to the next day when he wasn't there i always
thought that obi-wan allowed vader to kill him to further convince luke to go for vader no that's
good writing fuck that like that yeah i can accept because this is the thing about obi-wan
that i actually obi obi-wan knew that he couldn't defeat vader physically the thing i love about obi-wan
is an idea by the way this isn't confirmed but the idea that obi-wan is actually a little bit
morally dubious if you consider that he was like oh fuck i can actually use this opportunity that
i can't defeat vader in to let him kill me and convince luke fuck it this guy is the worst evil
piece of shit i've not told him that he's the father and whenever i talk about anakin skywalker
it's always positive but i fail to mention the fact that anakin is vader you know all this shit
that's like wow obi-wan is kind of that's what i mean i love it it gives obi-wan a really layered
character i think i don't know how much of it was on purpose a lot of you know people always
comment about how it's a retcon when he says uh from a certain point of view but um you can make
a retcon uh fit in like you know the idea that you have things that explain something that was
a plot hole but then not once you add uh necessary bonus content through sequels and stuff it's a very
complicated uh yes a plot hole becomes a nut hole i think the the way they they worked it was
just enough to to make it plausible or to make it kind of they got away with it which i just find
it very fascinating that obi-wan manipulated luke to a certain extent and when confronted with it
well i was right from a certain point of view yeah but then you have to wonder like how how
much did he know how that was going to play out with luke and vader like did he ultimately know
the the confrontation they were going to have well i'm assuming well remember obi-wan advises
against luke going to confront him early because he wants him to be in his best form to kill vader
i see him as almost a little bit like one-dimensional in that he's like i want you to kill vader
we need to make you as best as possible because i've already got the motivation sorted when i killed
myself against vader so now we gotta get you strong while luke is this is the thing he's
almost annoyed when luke finds out that he's his dad but then did he know that uh luke was going
to be impetuous and go ahead no i don't i don't think he knew that at all he advises against it
right he's like no don't yeah and he would have trusted that yoda would have uh held luke back
until he was ready but luke would decide to be headstrong isn't the ot so much more fucking
interesting than the sequel headstrong well what's interesting is that if we apply this logic
to obi-wan becoming merging with the force and there there are so many layers that we can
look into to give him reason to do it and then raise the question why is luke deciding to merge
with he was bored he was bored he's like i've done now he ran out of he was it helping anyone
he bit all the books and he was he was reading half of them he's half done he's like you bit all
fuck it i just i'm done skip to the end give me the cliff notes you see how the original trilogy
dealt with universal themes and i dealt with like oh yeah and some like the the kind of epic fantasy
hero's journey kind of way of presenting your storytelling and the the sequel trilogy deals with
nothing because there's no ideas there they don't know where anything is going to go they're just
winging it with every every movie that they make and you know i think that's just a little bit sad
in a way that's what we've devolved into totally i mean the whole fucking affair is sad
so anyway what if it keeps getting worse well that's why i'm not gonna watch uh the next one
you're not gonna watch episode nine no it's gonna be so funny we've got to see it out
sad we've got to see how it ends come on we have to watch the tism ensue
and we believe we just watch it for the couple of significant well man have you guys have you
guys heard the the high words they're like right now to watch it completely sequel trilogy is
gonna have ray as like the the mentor then she's gonna pass on the wisdom to the next
the half of the millen they're like the only way a separate trilogy could be successful in my mind
is if they just forget like treat it like it's its own separate thing and that the
this new trilogy with ray just doesn't exist go night to the oral public or something
i i am actually excited for episode nine because there's no way you can do it right
and there's so many ways you can do it wrong plus j g abrams is there again so it's not they've
ran out of original trilogy characters to carry the film they're literally relying on everything
we've learned about ray poe and finn which is fuck all well no they're trying to get um palpatine
yeah no they can't rely this is the thing like you can rely on living characters dead characters
can only do so much they can just pop up and be like hey bringing in palpatine's felt like
such a cheap you know like move to just we need to get nostalgia we're relying on us palpatine
no one's ever really gone and then having palpatine's voice i just
read let media sum it up it's just like no one's ever really gone you're fucking kidding me
come on disney look back then like oh hey palpatine and luke force ghost fighting
i remember back here for another star wars back when he's like oh fuck back when i was making my
tlj rage back in the first video that ever was viewed beyond a thousand views whatever
i remember reading threads where they were saying i cannot wait after luke uh no sorry after yoda
lightning struck the the tree that proves the force ghost can affect the world and i cannot
wait for yoda and palpatine's fight as force ghosts and ironically i was just like that's
where we're at folks people looking forward to that we're fucking done what would happen
is the result of that fight nothing else one of them chops their head super hell yeah they go to
soup they become super force ghosts they're at a different plate altogether they could only visit
force ghosts they become even more powerful strike me down i shall become really powerful
eventually they end up in uh the paths of the dead and middle earth all his whole ship all right
we can do this underwater it's perfectly reasonable considering the grief he's experienced
whether he's physically there or not he's still confronting the source of his grief in kylo
unlike thorin thanos the entire climax of this movie revolves around the confrontation between
the two characters who incited this devastation um okay so like incited this devastation maybe he's
right when you cut away every single piece of context and you literally keep it to the pieces
on the board who were involved in whatever happened you know i mean snow could be the one
that started all this yeah that's actually true too but if you said like kylo was involved at the
inception of bad happening so was luke and you know who was involved at the the climax of the
film trying to sort out those two same characters like okay every function like the confrontation
between luke and kylo i was anticipating i was hoping for something good and it it disappointed
me but that was something i was really looking forward to because they did have a history and
so if anything was was mildly set up you know in the last jedi you could say that could be one of
them even though it required luke betraying his whole character in the previous movies and all
that stuff just looking individually so there is some validity in the uh the strength of that
confrontation it wasn't executed well um but that doesn't undermine the confrontation between
thor and thanos luke's one feels a bit more personal um but there was still thor had a lot
you know he went through to get there so i'm not like there it's hard to say which is better
luke's one feels like it should be personal because it ultimately comes down to him and kylo
but there's ultimately nothing there well yeah nothing happened especially in terms of solving
the problem because it really fucking bugged me when kylo said uh did you come to say you
forgive me to save my soul and luke just goes no sick what your your your lost cause oh god yeah
that's the thing luke saying he doesn't he thinks that his family member is unsavable it's like oh
my god my head help you can you can imagine ryan johnson writing that scene though being
like i don't know what the yeah luke's such a fucking badass the love yes like are you here to
save me no like you know no one's really gone okay that means nothing in the context of what's
going on right now but oh my god it makes sense luke skywalker is captain marvel's hero no
no please no you know what you know what makes me sad about all this
poor mark yeah he actually he actually tried like he he was really trying in this scene and
he was trying to make it like work for everyone he he really gave it his all and there was just
nothing to work with i just want star citizen to come out already so then i can get a real luke
skywalker since he's literally in that game rewatch the ot over and over again crying rocking
back and forth with a jack daniel that's the luke that i know episode seven never happened episode
seven never happened episode seven never happened submitted expectations oh no the villain who tore
everything down and the hero who failed to stop them and technically endgame doesn't qualify here
because this stanos isn't the same one who killed no shit this is not even really a fake comparison
and uh the luke and the last jedi isn't the luke that i remember either oh there you go
that's a nice compare verse i mean i don't want to say that he's he's not the same in the sense
that they're from different timelines but they are the same because he's just from the past like
like he's completely equivalent and his intending does not only do the same thing that he did before
but he wants to do something far worse he wants to kill everything now so just to say that four
shouldn't have any grudge against this stanos because it's from a different time period that
doesn't i agree that he should have a problem with this guy regardless but i think it's a
missed opportunity to not have the thanos that met all of the avengers in the film
yeah it would have been especially someone like iron man who was defeated thoroughly to then
fight him again in a round two the one of the things i absolutely love about thanos in infinity
wars is dialogue i almost love everything he says i'm like activated that's weird watching him um
in in endgame he's very just i am bad i kill yeah the good thing about thanos was like you could
sort of understand where he was coming from you know you might not support his aims or anything
but like oh i understand it he he he wasn't necessarily a bad guy he he the fact that he
asked after the moor in titan and he's not the person who throws the first punch in titan either
he's talking to dr strange and dr strange is like i think you'll find that our resolve is
as strong as yours and he goes hour and then he gets hit like he he wasn't even like in fight
mode he was in chat mode he's much more fascinating in infinity war than he is in endgame unfortunately
yeah my my problem with him in infinity sorry in endgame is like when he comes to that final
confrontation with with tony and thor and uh and cap he's like yeah i'm gonna destroy the entire
universe now because you guys resisted me it's like his entire world view has changed just because
these guys put up a bit of resistance to him you know everything that he held dear everything that
he considered important this idea that he could like um balance the fate of the entire universe
and his mind just went not to mention that all of it is dependent on fucking nebula's head having a
glitch yeah well that's what i was saying to you earlier it's like all of it came down to like you
know if she hadn't spazzed out in front of him in that one particular scene and shown a really
criminatence bit of conversation he would have had no fucking idea what what was going on
imagine it happens one second before nebula's about to go home if that button was hit five
seconds earlier none of it would have happened yeah yeah i just watched in game the other day
you know after that happens and she's like he knows she could have pressed the button right then
there's a lot of times she could have pressed the button between then and and the moment she's
captured by Thanos is like why didn't you press it at any point during that entire progression
progress any time when your plot depends entirely on like just random chance like that
that's when you've got shit right not even just random chances characters acting stupid
i want to go back on the the whole Thanos thing because i think what you guys are saying has
validity um but i think that like another way to look at it is like Thanos is working towards this
goal and he wants to achieve it and everything and then he finds out from someone from the future
that he does achieve it so that would be awesome but then he finds out that everything is worked
for is now going to be reversed by these people messing with time and i think i think there's
enough justification there for him to feel rightly ticked off and i was like and because that could
make him doubt that if he succeeds what if someone just reverses it they're like he can't stop people
from discovering time travel if i go steel menu for a second you're saying that he's like trying
to create a better world and he realizes that there's no fucking way you can do it because no
matter what someone's going to travel back in time and undo his actions therefore there's potential
he's going to create he's going to create a universe where everyone's happy that's it
and it can't be like his will can't be challenged i think the problem but then you could make that
work but you have to give it more i was going to say it's so quick in the movie it's like in one
conversation he goes from zero to 100 in terms of 100 genocide yeah we don't get to we don't get
to see the sort of impact that has on him you know it'd be interesting if we got to saw him
you know be gutted that the the idea that all of his plans have fallen through and like the
universe is always going to resist him if he tries to do this thing you know fair enough if
you get a little bit of time to let that sink in with him but he just takes it on board straight
away and he's like okay cool uh i'm gonna just like reshape the entire universe now
my son agrees i got a sec yeah i was actually gonna say you guys cool with i think he is now
as a good a time as ever for me to i'm gonna youtube has a stream limit it's uh eight hours
we're at 6 38 and i know that with the amount we have to talk about and i have to read out all the
super chats which is probably going to take at least two hours it's good to we're going to be
splitting this into two parts so i'm taking it we're not doing the third video maybe we will
no problem uh so i think this is a natural end and we will wait just about five minutes i think
it is and then we will restart the stream just to come back and uh start talking again with the
we'll come back had a better arc than luke skywalker uh but yeah we'll we'll be coming back with
efap episode number 41 because this is uh on really long yeah anything anyone wants to say
before i hit the old end stream button uh how many pieces of pizza are you gonna have wolf
i don't know have you decided yet well i already had a pizza and i also had a burger
i haven't you're talking like you're talking like hamburger on your pizza right not like
a whole hey they sell those in addition to the pizza it was it was well actually was two
additional hamburgers with the piece well after several hours after they have pizza burgers so
it's healthy could you possibly have a donut i had a diet coke of all this and just like no i just
actually whipped out another pepsi i desperately wanted donut kebab now you've said that all right
i'm i kind of do as well actually because it's like two in the morning here everyone say goodbye
everyone say goodbye goodbye quickly rags is gay
