Any of them. Yeah, well, we got to do that having friends video. That's gonna be good. Oh, yeah
This is the thing the ones i've got are like old and he's got like a hundred new ones
Well, it uploads like six times a day so
Yes, I am live now
I can tell because my phone went off in the background like oh, yeah, he's like my phone beeped
I
Probably let my discord know but you know who really cares who really cares
Who gives a shit about them?
Hello there
Everyone
Why today? I mean it's literally just based on
When people are free, okay
When people are free you get in there and you
And your stream stuff the thing that's on screen right now isn't what we're doing at all. Let's get the correct one up at least
How dare you ask us?
Why we're doing it today. You should be thankful that we're doing it at all
I think I can't remember who made that the argument that it's like we should be thankful that the films exist at all
Uh, probably every single one of them for all the people we've covered there you should
Look I'm asking you are you thankful that we have the
Fuck what did he call it disney fanatical universe? Yes, disney fanatical star wars universe
Aren't you thankful? Like that was a response whenever there was a any kind of flaw. It's like but it's disney's
If disney hasn't made like a hundred terrible movies
Disney have their own universe where darth vader's gonna fight iron man eventually
Oh god, oh, oh no, apparently nike's lost four billion dollars because of this capernick thing
What's the capernick thing
Yeah, so dikey like made an ad with collin capernick in it and people got mad and they started lighting their shoes on fire
Lighting their shoes on fire were they wearing it because it's like oh, it's got nike logo
I mean, I wish I had enough like money and time to give a shit to light my own clothes on fire
Because shoes are expensive as hell
Yeah, the reason why though because what a
Kneel down in the nfl shit or whatever
Isn't that why that like this person's like controversial?
Yeah
Like it's not it's not just because like some random person
Wears shoes or whatever like they go nuts and rips
What was the daily like I don't know anything about it like do they hate him so capernick was one of the guys who?
Wouldn't stand for the pledge of allegiance at football games. He's a professional nfl player. Well, he was he didn't he hadn't
We gotta put quotation marks around professional because he wasn't yeah, he was on the he was on the bid
But he made this big thing about it
but he wouldn't he basically he wouldn't stand for the pledge of allegiance and stuff like that and
Um, a lot of people didn't like that obviously
And he had he basically didn't play for like two years
Nobody wanted to hire him because it was so contentious
There was a time when he was the most disliked player in the nfl
And nike says, you know what we're gonna make him the face of our marketing campaign
and so what they did was they got his um,
they got his face
And they put it over a
It's a close-up of his face
And it has the phrase, um
Basically stand for something even if you have to sacrifice everything
And this guy's like a multi-million dollar guy who was paid god knows how many
digits to basically sit on a bench for years
And everyone hated him
And he's like, yeah, this will this will be so how have they lost money like as in people have stopped buying their stuff
significantly, is it or
Well, then their stocks have dropped
Oh
It's not really so much that it's like, okay, everyone stopped buying four billion dollars worth of apparel in a day
So that the stocks have dropped
Well, I still think lighting your clothes on fire is kind of retarded. You could just like donate it to somewhere else
Oh hell, you know just light our shoes on fire guys
Take the labels off hit spray paint them and just be like nah
These are uh, these are these are dubais which are just like this other thing
Yeah, but it's just sad because they don't care about like, you know
The fact that it's maybe I swear shop workers
But because a one particular person is like sponsored by them. That's like, you know offensive enough to do like do them
How'd she get so deep then was that because he's smoking?
Oh, no, sorry, you know
Oh brags someone in the chat says your mic is low
I've got him on max. So
Oh no, yeah
Further well, I think you did you put it on 90 last time was that where we maxed out for you?
Let me do that
But uh, we'll see how that works
Yeah, it's difficult for me to nail the volume with this selection of sources
Hopefully I just get it good enough is the aim
Um, are people ever going to talk about stop talking about tlj is like no
Nope
Not this decade. I hate the argument that that means it's a genius film. I was like no
Yeah, i've seen that i've seen that in the comment section in um the video about the watch
Is this yeah, no
Imagine thinking this movie is genius like like how dumb
Do you have to be because I like you're not intelligent. Obviously. Wow. Well, you're like you're like the mean one out of all of
It's like it's just the actual it's the literal argument though that because it's so divisive there divisive that it's genius because of that it's like no
Well, it's just i was gonna say there's gotta be
Like this films are still talked about today that are both incredible and terrible
That's like how you get talked about infamous and famous and that's the whole logic. So
Like which one is it and it's like well
If you ask me
Yeah, perhaps if you ask everyone else who makes videos like this love a different idea, but yeah
everyone ready to um
Get blasted with minds
We're gonna get hit with so many logic bombs that we're gonna actually reassess how much we enjoy the film. That's what 20 minutes
Oh my god, we're gonna do this video has convinced a lot of people apparently that
It's it's brought them into the flock, you know with uh, oh, this is that defies expectations video. Got it. Yeah
For a primer this is from what's his name something Macintosh. I never remember the first name
I should remember that john. All right, so we get this frequency writer the person behind the
So we get to look at his extremely punchable face for the next
You think what you're saying earlier, I don't think that these kind of things convince people
I just think that people who are determined to like this movie coagulate around this stuff
And they kind of they want to use it as a club, right? I mean
I well, I say like people I you know, it's like one or two comments that stuck out obviously and like those people could be sincere
but yeah, I don't know, um
But you did all of uh, you know
Well, it's quite positive. Although common section was so far. I don't think anyone like is really like
Negatives latched onto it. I guess
Well, only people who watch jon really to watch jonathan mackintosh in the first place is like
It already already takes a certain person who's willing to go with uh, you know, oh, okay. Yeah sexism
There you go easy
I mean it says a lot when even fucking anita got rid of him. So
Yeah, he's doing better than she is. But again, like I see his channel is just it's another vision of uh,
You know the whole like say something come
Incredibly interesting with the title and have a nice
Thumbnail and then probably just he's gonna change what happened in the film. That's probably what's gonna happen. I'll be like, yes
Well, I won't explain it. But yeah
Maybe maybe he'll tell us that ray was the one that killed han solo
Oh, no, no, no, there's there's some really asinine shit
Probably someone say really even more than that
No
I'm not just like misinterpreted what happened on screen just like it's a it's uh conclusions, you know
I was gonna say, um, it's worth clarifying excited
It's worth clarifying because i've implied before possibly by accident the hella greedo loves the last jedi when I I may have
misunderstood that he simply likes it and that he uh, he has some issues with it, but he
quite likes
Sort of you know, like it's the typical thing where it's like we we hate what they did with luke
He likes what they did with luke. We hate what we did
I think he's a little bit easier on that on the topic than people like just write up but um
It doesn't change the fact that his mary sue video was awful. Like it's gonna say we still we still check that out
It's pretty bad and it doesn't change
I've seen a couple videos from greedo where he was like passively aggressively defending the last jedi like he did in the mary sue video
I definitely I need to go see his last jedi video again because I can't remember how passionate he was in defense of it
But uh, yeah, he's definitely
He's got a lot of he makes a lot of comments to come from a bitter place that always comes across to me
That's definitely my opinion. He he really strikes me like he doesn't want to anger
He's kind of like boogie but like even more
Irritating where he doesn't want to anger either side of his audience. So he's going to take the
most
Mundane route possible to say I like the movie, but i'm not going to outright say it
Because then i'll be you know called an idiot for it rightfully
Well, I mean we'll always be open to uh have a discussion with him. Not that there's any point in me saying that
He's not that there's any chance that he's ever going to have a conversation with us
But yes, the invite's open. Anyway, uh, are you guys ready? You're all good
Okay, good
Yeah, let's watch him. Good old johnny
Maybe I should actually bring up the washer to get out of the left side. Oh shit
Well, yeah, you all you already hid the watch together because I know
I was listening to it, but I was like looking at the youtube page
I was like, oh, where's along with coming from? Uh, someone said how long will the stream last? Like there is never a
Tomorrow 3 a.m
Just say yes, that's the answer to that one. The last jedi is a movie. Oh my god. I hate his voice
The last jedi is
That is all they all they pitch but hey, yeah, just say let him let him argue gosh
You guys says he opens the wheel embarrass himself. Let him do it. Don't we don't have to do it
It's just it's just a it's a casual up. So it's not an argument. It's just a casual observation about
About you know to subvert audience expectation. Oh my god, I can't take him seriously
Oh stop it. I can't it's 10 seconds in come on. Okay, we're not gonna get anywhere
I
Mean it's not my fault that his voice is like the absolute worst thing in existence. It's fine
We only got 20 and a half more minutes. That's fine
Nowhere is this more evident than in the way the film handles its three main is a hey remember how Luke
Casually throws away his father's lightsaber
People always reference the fact that he threw it in the uh throne room
They're like see he's thrown light sabers before I was like he that was his lightsaber
There's no there's plenty of context to go through on that one tone wise is my biggest argument how
Yeah, I assumed ryan johnson was going for a joke. I really liked um when red letter media
Uh recanted the cinema experience of that one. I think it was mike. He said something like um
When he threw the lightsaber the audience was silent one guy went
But yeah, that's basically how it was in my theater, too
Like there was a couple little like giga laughs, but most of us were like
Oh
What that's his father's that's his father's lightsaber
And that lightsaber's been through so much shit and there's so much history behind it and he's like me
There is nothing more evident than in the way the he didn't want it because they didn't bring the hand back to
x-wing pilot po dameron
renegade stormtrooper fin
and legendary
Thanks for reminding us that he is supposed to be a stormtrooper by the way
I was going to say we wouldn't know it from the films. Thank you. Thank you for that
Luke skywalker
Initially all three characters seem like they should fit neatly into familiar archetypes for men in action adventure films
Oh, I see where this man in action adventure films. Okay. Um
Men in action, let's let's see where he's
You can't do that
The desoldered wolf uses ad-hobit of attacks to be legitimized
I can do aiu. Oh you cock
In po we expect the hotshot fighter pilot who celebrated
Hang on
Why are you referencing a good movie in relation he could reference
He could reference the force awakens. We expected po to act like po
Like how crazy is that
Characters expect audiences expected a character to behave as they have been established to behave
Like isn't that insane cleverly subverts your expectation by transforming the character off screen into a completely different individual
He's dab right
He's damn right. I expected a hotshot pilot from po. That was what I expected
I'm stunned by the fact that he's trying to compare will smith like one of the most charismatic actors in existence to fucking fin
No, I think it's po. He's going. Oh, yeah, he's going with po. Oh, he's going to
Because it's a hotshot pilot he's all about the race this time. See if you're so busy
Insulting him you'd be able to listen to these incredible arguments. Well, if you're you're you're a bad man
Get a clip from top gun then that's more applicable in finn. We expect the noble defector
What?
You went with avatar
Wow
Oh, no, here we go
Why
I should have made I should have paused it and said make you guys guess who it would be
Not gandalf. Why gandalf? That's not the same as luke at all
I wouldn't even say gandalf and ob one are the same
I wouldn't say gandalf and any character or maybe kweigan. Maybe
Oh, like kweigan's like a worst vision of gandalf
Would you say?
Well, yeah, at least we got gandalf for three movies
Well six nine technically, but fucking hell
Genuinely now was he actually saying that we were kind of expecting gandalf in luke. Really? Yeah, these are the these are the archetypes
Are we gonna get a billboard bag?
These lovely little generalizations and then you know, they can just well
this is how they
I'm confused because he's treating these films as if they're like the base scripture of you know, like
most films evolved from avatar and lord of the rings
I don't see that really but
Fucking I just realized avatar lord of the rings and independence day. What a set of three films to select, you know
Mate, he's taken him two months to release this
He picked like the most overrated film in existence one of the best films in existence and one of the most okay
This is fun film in existence. That's why it's a fun selection
It's one minute
Oh god, please
Once more or twice, I can't make a gremlin reference please
Reference the gremlins in regards to rose
He's not helping
Why warrior who wields tremendous power in the name of fighting?
Why are you referencing him looking at the eagles incoming as a reference to gandalf's power bad visual?
Should have done it when he was against the balrog. That'd been way better. Oh, yeah
When he holds up his staff and he's like, yeah, it's fucking epic
This is where gandalf gets saved. I would argue that that's a bit inappropriate, but you know, that's a nitpick
That's a nitpick right there
Male archetype saved by giant flying but in each case the last jedi doesn't deliver on those expectations
It doesn't deliver much
It's not immediately. You know what? No, he's he's right. They don't turn luke into gandalf
They don't turn thinking into the edge be like, why does this how is that relevant though? Just curious?
To anything even instead director ryan johnson throws fans a series of curveballs
Over the course of the first act fin reveals his self-centered and defeatist attitude, you know self-centered he's trying to save way
He's trying to save yeah, he's trying to save way
Yeah, and yeah
And funnily enough ryan johnson agrees with mackintosh because if you remember rose tico calls him a coward after he says i'm trying to save ray
There's no
Why is jonathan macktosh retarded? Did he watch a different movie for the rest of us?
Well, I mean it only took a minute and 20
But I said they're gonna have to revise the film they're gonna have to change what happens in the film in order to make
Their thesis, you know commit
Because he's already fucked up
This wasn't a selfish goal. He was trying to get away so that when she comes back
She wouldn't come to the fleet getting destroyed. It's perfectly
Jonathan mackintosh we're talking about he fucked up a long time ago
Po proves that he's reckless and arrogant. No, he doesn't
I i'll give him arrogant but not reckless. I give myself that i'm arrogant right like that. It doesn't necessarily mean
That uh, you're like some kind of villain and it turns out he was right
I hate how people that defend this movie like try to to actually paint pose the villain when it's like, oh my god
he
I just don't know. I don't know where this idea that he did anything wrong comes from
Yeah, he did everything right and everyone did nothing wrong
Post like hitler. He did nothing
I just I i've never understood it because I was always on board with po throughout the whole film
But I thought that the film was telling me that holder was the villain and I was like i'm on board with this
Gonna be here. Hold those the hero
I was like wait
And luke is so consumed by paralyzing guilt that he's renounced he's using a deleted scene
That's priceless it is that is it is oh that's
You can't that doesn't
This scene wasn't good enough for ryan to want to put in the film
That's the same I just love it even the people who like the film agree that this scene should have been in the film
The jedi and become a hermit
And yeah his guilt by the way, it's very we had to milk the sea cow. I wouldn't actually
Specifically agree. It's about guilt. He makes it very clear in that scene where he's like the jedi need to end
I am a jedi. So i'll end and the reasoning is the jedi created uh darth vader and they allowed palpatine to rise there was two
reasons for allowing the jedi to die
Again, it's complete nonsense reasoning, but it is what he said
He didn't say I'd do it for these guilt
Unexpected character twists are part of the reason why some star wars fans left the theater in a state of shock
Which rapidly mutated into pits of rage?
Yes, I was angry because they didn't provide me gandalf
Oh, yeah
just
It's it's more juicy. Yeah, it's the whole thing
Now to be clear we're not talking about people who just happen to dislike the of course
It's the toxic ones, but i'll get lumped right in with them. So we'll rag so we'll so we'll alex
We're all in there
We're all those
Anybody who makes their voice heard about how much they didn't like it is toxic
But also that you never ever hear about oh, they're fine. The fact that he just said, um
That you know, this is including the people who disliked it
I'm just like i'd be curious mackintosh have you checked out what the people who disliked it said the people you consider valid like have you considered?
Maybe they have valid perspectives on this because obviously he's going to be explaining this side of the film as if it's just law like
Let's be honest
Luke was supposed to be gandalf and they subverted
In order to tell a better story about whatever and you could just be like, but no they didn't
Question mark and she's like, oh, this is just my opinion. That's probably where we're going with this
It is after all not a perfect piece of cinema
That's one way to put it. I could agree with that
About the subset of mostly male super fans white male super fans. Don't be trained and personally disrespected
Disrespected I guess you could put it that way. Yeah. Yeah, that was what yeah carl when we watched it
Oh, and I watched the first time of you was did I seem disrespected? No, you couldn't contain your laughter
Oh, yeah, I was frothing. I was like, how dare they
But no, they genuinely they were people out there who felt disrespected
But you know, is that valid is it valid to feel disrespected by a film and it'd be like well
What if they're feeling disrespected on behalf of the source material?
Something like that personally disrespected
I mean that would probably come in if if the actually they got insulted by the director personally, which has actually happened
You guys know about that?
Johnson happens to do on the internet all the time. Yeah, Disney does that all the time
Disney really needs to rein him in I suppose things rain themselves in
Basically, yeah, because they they turn it too. So it's captain Kennedy, but ryan johnson. He's all over that shit
The toxic fans. I mean we we were able to make it only two minutes before we brought in the white males
So that's a good that's a good record for him
congratulations
Anything else?
Well, he hasn't said white males yet. Right in the group are no
At about the yeah
He hasn't gone on about the female dynamic yet
He felt betrayed. Oh great personally disrespected by this movie
anything else
The objections from that particular group are wide ranging the two were accompanied by a girl
But they often involve an obsessive level of scrutiny when it comes to female characters. No
Oh, oh is that right? So I don't have a problem what they did with luke. It's mainly just about the girls
The what? Yeah, he said we're obsessive when it comes to female characters, which is just nonsense
The last show I hate is as in cells
Oh god, here we go. I'll say that my biggest problem was with luke and he's a male character. Yeah
What if he's trans dude, that's offensive
And within the last week we've launched terminator two
Aliens and those were both insanely good
I cannot believe rags molar told me you've never watched aliens before that. I cannot believe that that's
How did you go for so long without watching that movie?
The same way I go so long without watching every other movie except that one was aliens in fairness rags is right, but man
aliens
Oh so good though
So good, but yeah, you see that now so it's all fine. Yeah, I love it. It's very good
Anyway, it has a woman in it. So I was about to say
Obviously, we don't like it that much because female characters are very frustrating to see on screen ever
just
Should have been bishop
My game of the year for 2017 was hellblade, but whatever right?
Yeah, I think you're just lying. You're probably just lying
On the more extreme end of the spectrum hang on did you just use the what girl thing is like
You know in fairness the guy said some girl helped the droid escape. So he asked what girl
That's not really anything to do with hating girls or anything
I'm implying
I was just gonna say like if he's trying to apply that kylo is like anti-female in the film
I'd be like no there's no evidence of that at all. He's just anti he's anti people
Fan complaints have a tendency to devolve into wild conspiracy theories. Oh, yeah
About the disney corporation pushing wild conspiracy theories. Some of them actually have fair evidence
What is this video exactly then? Yeah, wouldn't this be a counter conspiracy theory like everybody's
Working together to try and distrust the film based on the fact that they don't like females. I mean, it's very pretty sure this film
Yeah, this video and all the videos like it like patrick willams where he's like you just stop watching all these white males
I mean this kind of proves
That it's all
Kind of being pushed by sjw's he pushed himself into his own grave with that one
Patrick williams definitely i'm waiting for macintosh to do it to himself as well, but
We got it. What was it like five different times from williams where he was just like if you're white
You can't really offer anything
Well on black panther anyway
I would love to ask williams if um, if black people can offer anything on um, what's a film with like no black people at all?
Uh jaws all star wars lord of the rings
All right fine
Yeah, black people can't offer anything on star wars episode four. So don't allow them to talk about it
Is that fair? Are we are we saying consistent on this one? I support it. Let's also support it
Patrick williams for president day
An agenda of forced diversity or feminist property. What do you mean? It's an agenda like we have a
We have a lot of literal clips of jj aprons
Like this is not a conspiracy jj aprons is very open about it
He says it's like I know I know that people will watch this and they'll roll the rise and like yeah
They just hate women
But we have there's a substantial amount of evidence in an amount of quotes and articles that we can pull from disney
And we don't even we don't need to talk about its effects or why it's a bad or good thing
We can literally just say no it exists. You can't deny its existence. It's a thing. Here's them saying that it's a thing
Here's them pushing this female angle
I mean when kathleen kennedy comes out and says the force is female and stuff like that. I mean
Like how are we supposed to take that?
That picture gets circulated quite a bit
Because it's uh, I don't know frustrating. Yeah, there's clips of her saying something like um
Oh, no, one of my favorite ones is going to be in my series. Uh
Basically, there's there's a there's an audience member who's asking questions for the cast and crew and she says, uh, you know, ryan johnson
It's very it's great that you have diversity in the cast throughout both both awakens and the last jedi
But it's um, it's it's pretty disappointing that you know
You have none of that in the creators all the directors and ryas have been white males
And then his response is just like yes, it is about time. We change that
I
Mean there's an article I just pulled up on the front page of google when I typed in the force is female
About why the last jedi proves that star war's future is female
And it's like I I don't understand why you think this is some kind of a conspiracy theory
I know well
I know why it's it's just to dismiss it you dismiss it offhand and then you continue with another point and then people just buy it
Because I would expect that he would say force diversity is not a bad thing as opposed to it's not a part of this film
Whatsoever, I'd be like, well, we know it's a part of it. There's no need to deny that yanda
But there is a common thread running through much of the backlash. Oh, is there now to an underlying anxiety?
An anxiety rooted in deep-seated insecurities about masculinity
Here we go
I'm just I'm just so you know
Conflicted because i've really just want to be a chick right now and this movie makes me feel
that emotion even more so
I get it, you know, it's jonathan mackintosh is hitting the nail right on the head
He's hitting it so deep in the head that it's literally pierced my brain and gone down my spinal cord. I'm curious
How many times we're going to be able to use aliens as a counter argument in this video?
Because we're gonna be coming up soon because it's you could absolutely argue that aliens is about
You know a series of big strong men getting absolutely destroyed and the innocent civilian female
Basically taking charge and kicking ass instead of them, you know
If you wanted to frame it that way you could and i'm saying that we love the film regardless
So I wonder if that'll work as a counter
Yeah, but what he's basically saying is people didn't like it because they're insecure. Yeah, especially white males
They didn't like it because this well in fairness to him. Has he said white males yet?
He has yeah at the two-minute mark. Okay. I did. I definitely missed that myself
Yeah
Let me briefly explain what I mean by that
Please do make a brief men in action adventure movies are expected. This is not a good example
Righteous this is respected decisive righteous and respected. Um iron man is is
not respected
Who else what a common action heroes in today's media. I wonder
We're looking right at caps in america. I was gonna say like he is literally a vigilante in the newest films
Is he saying respected by the audience?
Right. Yes. I guess maybe respected. I don't know
Because he's respected by the audience. He's respected by everyone. He actually has to
interact with aside from in civil war but
That's pretty much rectified
Are we gonna get a black panther video about masculinity or should we throw tyrian in he's not exactly respected whatsoever?
uh
his
You could argue at the end of season four
He was very indecisive and it caused a lot of damage to his own family
you know, like what i'm gonna argue for obviously is that uh
Not everybody is what he just described despite being leading action men. I suppose tyrian doesn't count. Uh, what about john snow?
He's easily a leading
Action man and look what happens to him. Uh
Thanks
That's a spooler. You can't say the point is that uh, he's he's talking shit right now
But you know, whatever
And to take charge in most situations take charge in most situations
This is at the very end of the movie
This is at the very end of the matrix
He got his ass kicked before this plenty of times and he had a lot of
fronts the uh development
But yeah, it's bullshit. What doesn't how doesn't this apply to female leads in action related stuff again aliens
I'm just gonna i'm talking i'm gonna bring up aliens a lot because it'll counter him every time
Thank god for aliens men are
That's why I bring that up every time I talk about that on my channel aggressively more and more powerful as the story like ray
Oh, she's
This expectation is uh, james bond is like a completely his own thing
It's it's like its own genre
The spy like to be to be like he's a leading man who takes action
It's like that's his job if he wasn't doing that he'd be bad at his job
And the formula is so entrenched in mass media also in the new bonds he gets his ass kicked a lot
Especially casino royale. I need he dies
Well, actually he need dies in a lot of them
But um, he definitely really dies in the daniel craig ones at least once per film. Yeah, that's from
And that many fans feel aggressively entitled to seeing that particular version of godly
reproduced on the big screen
That's what we wanted
It quickly becomes apparent that this movie isn't interested in catering to a simple vicarious power fantasy
I like how we just summed up all those other movies a simple vicarious power fantasy. Yeah
Because star wars has always been a male power fantasy for everyone. Yeah, okay
I oh
Okay, you just need an image of the emperor shooting his lightning when he says that like
male power fantasy
My sisters really liked star wars, uh, which is insulting to me when they tell me that it's a boy's thing
I'm just like fuck off
You can look at it like that
Yeah, my house may uh
She like loves that shit as well
and um
Yeah
It's it's a bizarre like
Oh, this is why people disliked it because he didn't satisfy the male power role, right?
Did empire satisfy the male power role when han got frozen and sent to a big yeah
put on framed on a wall
He falls up with it's going to be hilarious, but I let him get to it, but yeah
Just without this point. Well without that point. It doesn't make a difference right now
The it's still weak and bizarre of an argument with the like pitch
I've never even thought of it like the fact that he has to say it
Can we is it possible to name even popped in my head name a protagonist for a movie you like who's male and not powerful
Male and not powerful
I suppose tyrian counts for that one actually like physically powerful
Uh, let's yeah, let's say physically powerful. I don't think what he just said doesn't mean that they could be mentally powerful, you know
there's plenty of them like i'm top of my it was like a rinse wind from uh disc world, but um
It doesn't even matter about that like because rodo
Did any of you like, you know, like watch this film and then like as soon as you finish
Do you like have to like do weights or something like lift with some weight like feel good about yourself again?
No, I don't think like fuck sakes. I'm bald. I don't fucking give a shit about masculinity. It's robbed with my hair
How dare it?
But yeah
I'm just thinking like this there's plenty of characters we associate that are that are typically
Considered weak is is kind of what i'm getting that
um
Yeah, physically
Tyrian is is pathetic like you can't do anything specifically and that's part of his character and people saying Bilbo Bilbo back
So someone said uh hiccup from how to train your dragon and I watched that not too long ago
Real good napoleon dynamite
Uh, in fairness you need action we need action to at least be involved it can't be
He did dance so he's got a lot of power in there
Yeah, um, and then the obvious other counter argument
Do I just need to say aliens is like we need a buzzer to just say aliens and it counters his point
That satisfies the female power fantasy, I suppose. I don't know
All three male heroes are presented as vulnerable in their fallibility
What why how are they not in the originals?
You know luke and han
Emotionally in this film luke and han are absolutely fallible. That's kind of part of
Their journeys. Yeah, that's what a character's like, you know
I don't get the idea that these people have that we
Don't like vulnerable characters. Like I some of my favorite movies. Where does that idea come from?
I think it's one of those self-propagated
Well, the irony is that name raise fucking flaws name her
Fallibility, it's like she can't
And it I i've heard people say that race flaws that she's too nice
She cares too much basically
She's too perfect. She's too not flawed
I mean one of my favorite movies is the gray and all of the male characters are broken down to be as like
The in the most emotional states they can possibly be in and it's one of the best movies i've ever seen. I like the gray
Yeah, we can keep going forever and ever and just be like, oh, yeah
What were we talking about again? How this guy is telling us we we don't like it when our males aren't super virile powerful
It's like oh, right. Okay
With each displaying their own set of rather significant character flaws and inadequate
Yeah, no poe never really has a flaw in the film
He's a bit of a merry suit outside of his disagreement in the end of the fight, which I never understood
I would well he disagrees you there. Of course he does that after seeing all the fruit of his labor
He just changes his mind. Yeah, we'll go over there if he covers it
He sees
Now flawed heroes in and of themselves aren't all that unusual in speculative fiction, okay. Oh, oh, okay, then well, oh
All right
Okay
How do you reconcile this mr. McIntosh?
In fact failure and then learning to overcome that failure is just the standard recipe
For structuring a basic character. Okay
I'd argue the intense fan hate surrounding the lab. I just had a thought
I'll go back a little bit before so he can make his point but i was gonna say I had a thought that um
Do you see Poe's face when that door blows open?
What he sees is like here comes holdo and her team to essentially try and kill everyone on this ship
I'm gonna have to shoot her
It's like I picture that's what's going on. I'm just like i'm behind you 100 man
You've got to stop that piece of shit
Even if it means killing someone and then it's layer and you're like, wait, what then layer studs it you're like, wait, what?
I remember that
You just don't understand what's happening. I made a point in my critique
I was like this should be the point in the film where no one has any idea what's going on
Even the people who love it would be like yeah, I uh, I think that
Poe is evil
Hence fan hate surrounding the last jedi
Has a lot more to do with the fact that the male heroes in this movie are directly challenged on their failures
by women
He says that unironically like that's actually what if that's a thing that he thinks
So first of all challenge the male protagonist first of all aliens again ding ding ding
Ripley points out the flaws in
I think his name is general gorman. Um, obviously hudson. I'm not sure if she ever picks on hicks
because hicks is not retarded in that film, but
Uh, she she does a job of basically kicking everybody in the ass in the marines. Um, well aliens
No, it was not about let's talk about another thing
Um breaking bad like oh, I hate that show because skylo was ripped in the wall. Ah
Whenever I saw a woman on screen giving him grief. Ah worst show ever
Come on, I mean I found it a bit annoying outside of it being a woman
I wouldn't reference this because there's a woman if you changed holdo to a male holdo
male doe
Changed leia to leia dies somehow in its admiral act bar or whatever or or if leia was a brother not only a woman or whatever
That wouldn't change how retarded the film is. Yeah. No, it wouldn't not even a little bit
Yeah, it wouldn't it doesn't have anything to do with her femininity
At all. It has nothing to do with that. Like I would have I just want to bring up as as edward long shanks
Just brought up uh the original film where luke and hana both like what the fuck do we do?
And then leia blasts the uh thing open says someone's got to save our necks because or skins. I think she says
uh, so again
The female getting the males in order because they have no idea what's going on
Is that was that offensive in that film to us? Did we?
Have trouble with that
It's just it's it's something he's pulling out of his ass it's baseless yeah builds up this narrative and that's what his audience likes I guess
I don't know
This is not something that's supposed to happen
To space cowboys or space wizards in holocaust
This isn't supposed to happen to space wizards
Who the hell wrote the space wizards are there who wrote the book on what happens to space
I'm about to have a harem of female servants who all just obey them
I was
Can anyone cite of space wizard outside of luke or the jet the jet because like where does where does they have a reward?
I'm not saying there isn't i'm saying it's like they keep saying it like it's so common like our space wizards
That's just a thing space wizards. I mean there's um
Bob mass effect sort of has space wizards. Um
That's true destiny
We don't need to count that one destiny
Um space wizards though
Warhammer the room, would you say the room i'd say
That's a space vampire
I didn't think of that guy did uh, forget his name
Oh dear just him saying it like it's something that we all kind of accept, you know
We don't like seeing this happen to our space wizards like who are our space wizards?
Is gandalf space wizards?
As I clutch my gandalf toy
Women aren't supposed to so the reason that was fucked everything's fucked to this film
But I was just like, okay
So premise fin is trying to get an escape vehicle or ship's vessel whatever to go and get away from here
So when fin ray comes back she'll go to that instead of the fleet
He explains that to rose and she electrocutes him because apparently she's been electrocuting anybody who attempts to escape the resistance
I actually had a debate with somebody about this a while ago in comments where I was like, isn't this
Essentially a voluntary militia like what the resistance is
So like couldn't you i'm not sure what the laws are in america for that when it's constructed if there are laws
I'm sure it's different for every case. But like
Could you not leave one if you were a volunteer?
Yeah, unless it's like the official military you can't just leave on duty
But in something like I guess they have to try and I don't remember fin never joined fin was just there
It's stupid because they call this the resistance
When this is clearly like an organized army for the republic
But they're resisting nothing two important details for that though. There's no government. So they are essentially just a militia constructed of
I don't even you know
But uh, the second detail is really important fin never joined them
He fought alongside them for his own purpose, but he never actually joined
So she's like you're a deserter and it's like he never fucking joined woman. I'm not one of you
I'm not wearing the you know, I don't have like a badge with my name and then the idea
Yeah, like people saying you can't leave the u.s military i'm saying militia not military
Was I clear on that? It's like militia is when it's like constructed. Yeah, and even I pointed out
Yeah, military is different. But as far as this goes fin's not technically part of the resistance
You know, he's not on a payroll. I would imagine he doesn't have like a
Not to mention and you can absolutely call me sexist for this one
But if somebody actually ordered that you need to have somebody on guard preventing anybody from using the escape pods
why in the hell would they send the shortest and
No offense lacking body strength person there
Yeah, that's the thing right so then you go. Oh wait, maybe they didn't maybe she's actually just doing this herself
And she's been collecting bodies and tying them up somewhere. Just like jesus christ rose
Oh god, can you imagine being in rose tico sex dungeon? Yeah, I can't I can't remember just a nightmare
I can't remember the dialogue, but does she say anything like I was sanctioned for this or i've been doing it
Does she just say i've been doing it?
I can't remember. She said i've been doing it or i've been they ordered me to um
I don't know
Maybe maybe their problem is that they don't because even if he's not part of the resistance
They can't allow him to steal resistance property, which would include the escape pod. I guess
Yeah, I mean they don't give you much to go on this all this is all this is literally for
The last jedi's fucking narrative disaster
They won because this is how it worked with ryan johnson
He was like I want all of these arcs and then we'll just make them happen
Whatever it just didn't really care about constructing it because the point of this is that she eventually falls in love with him by the end
of the film from going from hating him, right
That was
That was poorly handled to say the least
No, one's going to talk about the incredible romance of rosette fin. That's not a thing that's going to happen
But uh, it's very confusing
But that's why it opens with her doing this to him because she looks at him as a traitor all the way up until he
Nearly sacrifices his life obviously because he's a changed man by then. But yeah
You know this is I never gave a shit that she was a female
Overpowering a male in this scene because she's got the technology to do it
Yeah, it is not that they chose someone so short and weak, you know
Yeah, like I said, it's strange that they did that if they chose it
Which I don't think because if you're desperate to get out of a situation alive
You think you're gonna you think you're gonna one not be armed
But two let this little chick stop you when when life or death hangs in the balance in your mind
Fuck no, like I said, I don't think that she was sanctioned
I think that it's sort of a joke because I remember it being like
Crying and then she's like really overly happy about explaining how she's been zapping people and he's like, oh
Wow, you know because he's trying to escape as well. It's a joke. It doesn't you know a lot of
This has nothing to do with any of that
But I've just been looking at this frame here
And I mean, I know all the female characters in star wars have pretty terrible retarded haircuts
But does this not look like she's wearing like a nazi cap?
She's wearing like a tanker helmet
It here flicks out like crazy, but I mean
It is strange gotta get them fancy haircuts. So i'm fine with it. I'm fine
People here was a bit much, but sure you have what you want interfere with a man's heroic journey
Interfere with a man through a little deeper into the unexpected ways that men are held accountable for their behavior
In each of the movies three intersecting storylines. Oh, yeah, let's do that
How men are held accountable as many critics noted when the last jedi
I'm sure we're gonna have to note that holdo is not held accountable for her horrific behavior that got
Basically what like hundreds of people killed?
Key detail I need to remember she says we start out with 400 and we end the film with I think 20 people on the falcon
something like that
It's fucking embarrassing
Yeah, that was like a tweet I put out earlier because someone had tweeted out um, no it was poe's actor who said, um
But he basically said, um, the the resistance is at the lowest point
Yet and like yeah, it's like 20 dudes on a ship
It's barely anything
Of course, it's a it's not much of a resistance at all
It's hilarious to from from the moment the republic are destroyed in the force awakens
They are now like at a lower point than they ever were in the original three films the rebels
They lower than that throughout all of it and you just come to realize it's like wow
They just did not try they were just like fuck it. We want our heroes to be downtrodden so they can be heroic
First hit theaters the theme of women challenging male bravado the theme of women challenging male bravado
Of course, it's a theme
Jesus fucking christ. Oh, yeah
Wonderful most evident in the character
So so if if this is a theme
If that is a theme in the movie then why would you say earlier is like a conspiracy theory about this stuff?
If you are now saying that this is a theme in the film
It's always themes man because it's what else is it like you have to just
It's all about interpretation
And then you just take a couple of actual things that happen in the film then make up a couple of actual things that happen
In the film and then you just gotta people love the word theme
I actually want to never catch myself using the word theme in my scripts anymore
Acid to my face just just oh
Feels like a cop-out
This is I think this is the second big contradiction so far really a theme
about
Po he has a hotshot fighter pilot. Mm-hmm. He's impulsive. He's arrogant
Yeah, he just quoted all things that holdo said
He's insanely successful. Exactly. He's successful
Asset to the result. He blew up star killer base. He fucking twat and he destroyed the dreadnought
Technically is arguably the biggest hero of the entire film and he gets no appreciational recognition for it
nothing for it
And how does he handle that he handles it greatly because po is a pretty good dude. He's just like, oh, okay
He's like i'm doing this for the right reasons and it's not about the fame and i'm a good guy and then
After
Who is a great character that we should aspire to be after hours of watching?
All the support ships get destroyed and holdo literally just look at the screen and say carry on
He makes a plea. He says please tell us what the plan is. No, he doesn't he say tell us there is a plan
He doesn't even ask for the plan. There's a plan something to give us hope and she doesn't do that
She doesn't even say yeah, there's a plan
It hurts your face
This is why by the way when people like uh, it was a bowl
It's like if there was a bowl i'm pretty sure she'd be happy to say to the bowl. There is a plan
Not telling you what it is though
But no with with po she's like hope
Hope is like a plan. You don't need it
It's like a plan you don't need it
Hope is like a plan fuck yourself
We're just gonna
We're just gonna have people die until I decide it's time for us to not die
Because that's what a good leader does
Oh, yeah, you know when he mutes I I remember being the film like oh
That's the first time i've ever seen him do a thing that I kind of don't think was a good thing to do
But then that was it the rest of his decisions are fine
and um
The other comment people have is that he was the one who drove the army toward the um, the dreadnought
But uh two details one that mr
Plinkett picked up that I completely missed was that um
He says while destroying the cannons that um, if uh, something like we've got to destroy these cannons are our bombers one standard chance
He's talking to bb8
As in that's the plan, you know, it's not it's not like some made-up thing
The bombers are always a part of the plan and then apparently layer changed the plan. But secondly that um
I was gonna make a second point i've gone in now
So something about this there's this so much to this scene that uh
I mean I can just cop out and use the other point that always gets brought up which is that if he hadn't destroyed this thing
Then the entire resistance would have been dead by the time you hit the end of the film
So oh, yeah, there's no reason they're they made it to the point that they made it
The only reason there's 20 guys on a ship at all is because ho destroyed the dreadnought
Because they can't not even this film can play the oh hux's retarded
Excuse long enough to have the resistance survive. They will still try to play that as best they can
Oh and wait hux is completely like you could say emasculated by uh by snoke and kylo
Does that count or does that fuck with your theme because those two aren't women?
Whoops and he cares more about being a big damn hero than he does about
He cares more about saving everyone's lives than he does about
Not doing it
It's just like but that's just wrong john
That's wrong mackintosh. Well, holdo says it though. No wait leah says that line. She says it. Um after she reveals the pan she's like
um
Holdo didn't care about being a hero
And uh popo is like oh my god, really?
It's just a little bit forced is kind of how I look at it as of his
Why
The gung-ho rebel pilot is a familiar archetype in star wars media. Oh god and as a result in star wars media
How it's going to play sure the good the fucking skilled pilot is just in everything that has pilots
Because I mean we don't want to see people
Who wants to see a pilot who's not good at being a pilot?
I mean king kuang said in the chat. I guess he cares more about saving the resistance than he does following orders. Yeah
Perfect you want to watch a movie about bad pilots watch that shitty pearl harbor film
Wait, yeah, yeah, this buzzer shitty pilot
Audiences expect the good guys to bring down the enemy death machine which they do in a giant which they do fire twice
And we expect to revel in the joyful spectacle. No, I appreciated that by the way
The tiny moments where i'm like, yes, they destroyed it but obviously a great cost which is war and it's like, okay
But then they changed that into this is why poe is evil. It's like oh god
Of impossible explosions in outer space
But instead of framing police daring raid on the dreadnought as cause for celebration
The movie suddenly pulls the rug out from under us
Yeah, but I mean do you want to check out do you want to check out the death toll when they attack the death star
In episode four. It's literally everyone except han and luke
Yeah, I mean what do they expect to fight this war without any casualties and this is on top of the fact
That I look at look at those red red dots. You've got one two, three, four five six seven bombers there
They were the most info. Oh wait, it's changed screens for me now, but it was
um
The bombers I have a huge criticism of the crappy design
Like I don't feel like it would have been as bad if you replaced all of them with y-wigs
Because of how that scene plays out the the tie fighters are delayed on release if you guys remember he's like
They should have been scrambled five minutes ago. It's like, oh, so we've got an advantage
And it's like not really one tie fighter kills three bombers immediately. You're like, oh
Okay, not even just one tie fighter one half of a tie fighter. Yeah, it's not it's not it's an accident
They're so shit you can accidentally get a triple kill on them
Well, I mean ray gets a triple kill later on on three tie fires, so I guess all ships are just that way
She totally knows it. That's my bad ray is just she's a space wizard basically
But i'm like you understand you you traded a dreadnought for one two, three, four five six seven eight nine ten eleven ships
Eleven small ships you you you killed the dreadnought
I think it's a worthy trade especially considering it could have destroyed your entire fleet just moments later
Like that that's insanely good
like in terms of
Resources that that's not that resource of meat
You know anything until they need to the second they pop after them chasing them through hyperspace and then they go
Oh my god, it's co-ops. Um, do you remember when poe is like?
um
A man permission to get into my axe wing and blow some shit up or whatever and then she's like permission granted
It's like a moment of yeah. Okay, you were right
Because because they've just caught up to us and they don't have the dreadnought
I remember thinking that for a split sec when I was watching the film, but no holder was like you're a bad man
You you led us to kill everyone now. Let me kill everyone in the meantime
Like the the point is this doesn't this whole this whole movie doesn't make any sense
You know what? I just said by the way, uh is exactly what they're doing in the opposite way
If my premise was this film is about women learning their place. That's what I actually make the argument for
Yeah, I know
And then you have I show the scene where she's like you're demoted that I argue poe was right poe destroyed the dreadnought
Po did all of this and then I show the scene where she goes permission granted and it's like
Leia learns in this scene that poe was correct all of long and she should have listened to him
it's like then
You're right
and then like the sjw
And then at the end you've got a you got she prevents poe fin from destroying the cannon and fin tells her that and then she
Goes unconscious knowing as she slips into a coma that she's killed everyone
It's like this is what they do. They just change the scenes they ignore context just so they can sell a narrative. It's really fucking annoying
I love that people argue as well. Look because he's demoted he should not get um the information and he's still a higher rank than basically everyone there
That's that's the assumption if he goes down from fleet commander, he goes to captain
but um
That's still a fucking high rank
Captain should know the plan for survival
11 ships 11 11 ships you lost 11 ships and you destroyed a dreadnought that you destroyed a fleet killer
That is an insanely good trade
That any general would make any day
But no like I don't even under how is that even like debatable?
Well this
Is something up you literally can though
Yeah, you just play footage of the first death star the second death star the third death star all in a row
You can't just solve your problem. You can't just fight a war by destroying the enemy. Yeah, that's ridiculous. I guess yeah
That would ever work
Yeah, we have to save what we love or something, right?
We should apply this same logic to the war in afghanistan and just like hog it out with them
Jesus
That's what this is teaching us the whole time protect those you love so hug our own and just hope that no one attacks us
I suppose we killed a hundred taliban, but we lost three guys
Ho is rebuked for his apparent victory demoted and by it is it's it is a victory
It's not an apparent victory
Yeah, I was gonna say like you would absolutely call it a victory, but it's not um one that you go
You know you start having celebrations like with uh
Streamers and and and and balloons and everything you go. Well, you know, let's respect those we lost like that. That's the kind of victory it was
But now no, apparently it's not a victory at all. It was a defeat. It's like what how was it?
Yeah, the the the alternative is
You die
So this was pretty good
Because you're not that
Is rebuked for enjoying the fireworks
Wow
You say that he was rebuked for enjoying the fireworks us
When you literally have the moment where he's looking at the ship getting destroyed po is and he actually looks kind of sad
Do you remember that bit?
Like he's not 100 like yay fire
Or abruptly reframed as cause for self-reflection and sadness well, that's war
It's fucking rare that you'll have a victory where there was no losses
So, of course you self-reflect like why this is this part wasn't
Some kind of like huge departure from how wars are won because obviously if you compare it to a new hope where they destroyed the death star
They're like incredibly happy. But ultimately it's like yeah, you've just stopped the thing that was literally destroying planets
Yeah, or well, you've made an incredible step forward because that thing what did you say the the
Someone said the amount of people on it was like 300,000. I think was a staff death star. I think that's a lot
You just one battle especially when how many people did it take? I mean either way
Reducing the enemy numbers by 300,000 and the resources it took to create all that that's insane. Oh, sorry
Yeah, that's that's the second point. I completely forgot the plink it brought up
So, um, if you look at where the bombers are when we first see them if you were to retreat they'd be destroyed
There's no way they make it back to the ships for hyperdrive
Which for some reason needs to happen even though the ot established that all of the individual ships have hyperdrive. So
Not sure why everyone has to be in the big ship to be able to do that
And then it raises the question of yeah, why don't you all just hyperdrive in different directions?
You'd all be alive instead, you know, it would just be too goddamn smart if you remember all the support ships
They can hyperdrive but for some reason they all just allow themselves to be killed
It's like why don't you just offload all of your men have one?
Let's say five guys on the support ship and then hyperdrive off somewhere and go get help
You know kind of like how they do with rows and thin this film is awful. I just wanted to
By the way, like the um, like the people who are apparently on the death star
That's like 10 of all the german army casualties in the entirety of world war ii
Well, there you are we find ourselves suddenly confronted with a narrative about
Consequences, how are they? How are they?
Consequences, how is that not in the originals? How is that not in the prequels? I can't believe i'm saying this but
That is a strong part of the prequels
Consequences the theme of the prequels is consequences
I thought it was about hating sand but you know a strong message against sand
And
For some star wars from levin ships must have felt as if princess lea
Had just reached out of the movie screen and personally slapped them across the face. But no what?
Um, what is that at all? How that happened? No
I mean you're just making shit up. There must be just some guy out there that he's been paid off to say that
He's like, you know, that totally was how it felt 100
I wouldn't I wouldn't put it past disney to pay people off
I mean even though we know from patrick willams that yeah, that's not a viewer ever has
Been paid off or gives reviews for money. I did tell you about that. Um,
I told you about that right al he said that there's no such a review would never be paid off. That's ridiculous. It's like
Okay
Now it's noteworthy that blowing up the space fascist death ray isn't framed as morally wrong
Instead we're asked to consider the tactical and human cost of that violence
Again, I don't really know a time where that hasn't been the case
Yeah, and people die in these scenes whenever they destroy something significant and it's always like no not that guy
Aside from porkins. Nobody really kid
I didn't even think about how abruptly that x-wing flew into that hangar. Hey, man. It was flashy. He was cool
But x-wings have a hyperdrive
That doesn't matter though. It flew in there so quickly
It was so low on fuel all of somebody all of the ships only had fuel
Even though hyperdrive fuel is apparently a separate thing from fuel, right? Like they're two different fuels
I don't get it. How were they?
Fuel from the ships and put it on the radis
How is it that they only just left the planet but they don't have any more fuel left?
Because they were rushing
Everybody's rushing
Yeah, but every if you were running a guerilla army and you know that once we're discovered you have to flee
Why are your ships not fueled and prepped for launch at all moments of the day?
Why weren't they fueled and prepped for launch as they were like attacking the star killer base just in case?
Oh god, the fact that this film takes place like hours later so stupid
They cut themselves off so badly with that. They should have just made it two days later. Oh
I'm fuck two days. Make it a few. Why not just do what empire did have them on a new base
Never mind
Oh no
We expect our brash hero to suddenly find themselves in command
But that doesn't happen instead. We elected
No, we we were expecting admiral akbar. We weren't expecting a hero of of
No, I didn't expect po. I expected admiral akbar, but he was just dead. I would expect c3po before anyone else
Like before holdo, let's just get 3po to do it
Not to mention literally thought anybody else before holdo because holdo didn't exist before this movie just
Invincer can you can you see by the way on the right of the person who's speaking to them?
That's neem nub who was in the original trilogy
That means he's been a part of the resistance for over 30 years and apparently he still hasn't risen in the ranks
Even though over the course of the ot which correct me if i'm wrong
But is that five or six years or something like that is the entire?
Uh time forget. I don't know. I can't remember but uh, you mean is that the guy who was in uh, falcon with lando?
Yes, so just to let you know wedge goes from being like private or you know
Lowest rank to I think captain in the ot over the course of three films, but neem nub is still a grunt
In the meantime holdo came out of nowhere. It is admiral now
Well, you know nub's uh, he's a minority so he can't do that most people are saying for you secretly racist
Women aren't god, there are a lot of there are a lot of women in this picture
Geez, there's a lot one
You can actually see holdo as the scene starts it's like yeah
one two three four five six seven eight
Nine ten
By the way, neem nub was the co-pilot where they blew up the death star that's a pretty big achievement
But nah, he's like almost half of this army is women
No wonder they got their ass kicked
That is a sexism how dare you
That's insane I never noticed that
By admiral well, that's the interesting part they the in interviews
They say that we want star wars to represent reality as in there are
Just as many women in the world as there are men, but it's just like the reality of the military
I'm like almost half of that scene was women in the military
And i'm like, yeah, I I know when there's a when there's a dangerous resistance gorilla force that forms to fight an all powerful
Evil enemy. I know that it's gonna I know that half it's gonna be half women
I
Guess I just that's i'm i'm mostly okay with it
I don't really care because it's a lot of the jobs they have to do aren't really heavy lifting. It's more it's a very odd detail
But uh, we know why they did it they've made it very clear and it's like very well
You know as long as you have good characters, it doesn't bother me, but they couldn't get that part
Do you guys catch while she wears like a halo
Yeah, very odd
Very very strange scar for on my neck to make it seem like i'm less of a giraffe than I am
Then general layer
You know what's interesting is getting these criticisms from someone we've never met
It was just like okay. Who are you someone just shows up berates a character for doing the right thing and we're supposed to be oh
Uh, I is the film trying to
To clarify as rag said before if this was male doe it would have been the same thing
Yeah
She's somebody that the film creates basically to like
even know what the pictures of like old fat general do good. Oh, you're reckless you're
You're impulsive
You're devoted. You can't know the plan. You would just be like who fuck is this guy?
Where the fuck did this guy come from?
Who's this guy like?
And isn't she the only one in a dress in this military that was very strange choice of clothing like
admiral holdo was wearing
a dress very strange, but hey
You know, whatever suits you she admirals can didn't mon martha wear a dress
Take away from the fact that she's a wahman and she can wear whatever you want rags
But I thought in the military you are so wear whatever you want. I thought there was like a uniform
You may be hyperbolic there, but people actually see that as
They see it as a sexist comment to comment on either a hair or a dress
And it's just like if a man was wearing a fucking dress I would say something too
Yeah, it's like I thought this was is this a military or not?
Is this like a military organization or is well, everybody's wearing their uniforms except for her
Who's just she's got this well, even if it was just a man and like jeans and a sweatshirt
I would be like this is very unprofessional
Exactly. Yeah, you you would imagine admiral to be the most professionally dressed
Like imagine if snoop dog just walked in and he was like, yo i'm gonna be the leader of your resistance now
I mean it would be like, oh god, we should all kill ourselves now
I mean at least we'd have a good time before we die as a liability to them
I he literally saved everyone's life. I don't see how that's
Yeah, I know that that detail is great
He said he's a liability to their mission and it's like how they the film never explains how he could possibly be a liability
If if he's to know this plan, which is we will be safe if you do nothing, how could he possibly screw that up?
Well, it's like this. It's like this. Um, this uh video we're watching is like despite all of the evidence to the contrary
believe me
And for anybody who's like she's worried you'll do what he did again
It's like he can't there's no ships this stuck inside this one and that's the best course of action. So
It's as simple as that you tell and it's so ironic because it's like
The hot shot you tell him
Nothing the guy who wants to take it into his own hands you tell him nothing. It's like, oh you idiot
Mission, you know, you know
It's a good time to teach your military members something very important with like a sort of gambling risky sort of thing
It's it's probably peace times. I would say that there's a better time to sort of
play with them learning about war as opposed to
The possibly worst moment for this faction in the history of star wars like the lowest fucking point
And this is really what's at the heart of why so many angry fans tend to hate by said i'm glad you know my heart
Yeah, I guess. I mean we've already he's already determined what we were expecting
He's already determined
That we feel what he say slapped in the face and disrespected like he's great at assuming all of our emotions and intentions
But his arguments are really shit
Hmm
Doesn't matter he's speaking from the heart about our hearts. I mean tell okay magintosh. Tell me about holdo's character
Tell me about her character. She is strong
amazing character she is
professional she is
Inspirational, she had a speech about hope that was inspirational
Holdo's possible for more deaths than po is
That expression really is like kind of horrifying
What now?
Her expression right now. Oh, right
It's like, um, where are you? What are you doing?
Because it's like why are you frustrated when he just wants the plaid woman holdo's character so much
I'll be right back. I need to get some of the drink. Yeah, that's cool
um, yeah, you guys just continue on po po losing his shit because he realizes that everyone's about to die just because
Nobody's doing anything like how would that not frustrate the hell out of anybody?
Yeah, it's like it people those lives are on the line and remember holdo responsible for deaths than po is
So if the whole thing about po loses 11 ships holdo is getting way more people than that killed and it's not even close
No comparison can be made
So what exactly is the um, you why isn't holdo being treated? Why aren't these roles completely reversed?
Holdo gets all these people killed for nothing
Po kill gets 11 people gets 11 people killed to destroy a huge fleet killer
That would have destroyed them and i'm wondering it
It really is baffling when you look at the details of this movie and you try to wonder how people
Jump through the hoops that they have to to defend holdo's character. Absolutely. Uh, what are they watching? What are they looking at?
While he's while he's gone. I'll try and run through super chats because I go for gaps to do them. Um
When they're streaming but you're at work, uh, yeah, I was able to finally catch you guys live stream. It's been
Work on trying to do this for a long time. Well, we're happy to stream aren't we? Uh,
How was life? I hated the last jedi so much
Well, that's life for you, I suppose
Um, what do you think of plink? It's the last jedi review. I liked it a lot
I just think that maybe he should have been a little faster with it because it's been
You know, it's been such a long time that I mainly only took away
Yeah, the the things he said about if you look at the last jedi is constructed via like a comedy formula
We're really interesting and there's a couple of things like plot holes or
Inconsistencies or conveniences that he mentioned that I was like, oh shit. Yeah, I didn't even notice that one. So, you know
Not not like irrelevant and it was fun. So
Um, mola, why are people dumb? Um
That is a question for the ages. Uh, can I get a birthday shout out from you guys from pascal benjamins?
No, no
Happy birthday. I can't believe you guys are so heartless. You wouldn't wish poor pascal a happy birthday. It's disgusting
The voice hating is real. That's that's how long back these these come from
Uh, thank you. You're all by heroes rags. Why can't you man up and grow a vagina for once? So wamen have representation
Yes, no answer I think rags might be dead I don't know
Uh, I thought you said you wanted to be entering. Oh, did he I thought I was wolf
I think but I think he took the opportunity. Well, I guess it's down to me now. I just read these then. Uh
I'll stay to listen live. You guys are all awesome. Have shackles. I'll probably hear this at the gym tomorrow. Oh, there you go
Yeah, I love gym. He's a good guy
There you go. Uh, uh rags wish pascal benjamin a happy birthday
Pascal benjamin happy birthday
You sell out somebody wanted a birthday wish how is it selling out?
Uh, no
Would you rather watch the last jedi every day for the rest of your life or put a glass tube in your urethra?
And then hit your wiener with a mallet
How big is this glass tube these options no, oh shit
What expression are we paused on
Interesting
I mean surely you'd have to choose
The the latter because you wouldn't want to have to watch the last jedi every single day for the rest of life
I can still get fucked in the ass. Can't I with a glass tube that gets smashed? I don't know
I don't know man. I'm trying i'm looking for a way out
Uh, I will never forgive ruin asking for more details about the glass tube than I am the details about the movie
I will never forgive ruin johnson for destroying and raping luke skywalker and making me not care about star wars worst movie let down ever
Yeah, but that's because you can't respect that women just wanted luke to be ganned out
Yeah, you wanted him to be a space wizard. You couldn't accept that he learned from a woman. That's your problem
Uh use expanse as a character argument that show actually is awesome and does diversity way better than last jedi
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no
I've not seen it
Okay. Okay. Well, I here's the thing. I love the expanse books
And so I was like, oh there's a show and then I watched it and i'm like, oh, this is horrifyingly bad
Well
It's it's a sci-fi show on the sci-fi channel
so
If that if you know anything about the sci-fi channel that that'll tell you everything
I do, you know the old sci-fi logo is way better than the stupid shit we have now
Also, the last jedi feels like a b level
Like someone's first entry level. Oh
It feels like a filler episode of tv. It really does like nothing happens really
Well, it's more complicated than nothing happens
It's the nothing the plot is the most boring idea ever space chase that gets resolved by the end and ever everybody of significance
Is still alive like who on the good guys team. Anyway
Uh
Yeah, but there's those people who are like maybe luke's not dead because he's casting you and it's like it's gotta be force ghost
Leia well, yeah, but she's gonna die in the next one. No, they're using clips aren't they for uh
For leya. So, um, yeah, it's more complicated than nothing happens
But it feels like I said, I would I would do better to actually argue why but it feels like a mid tv series episode
They would argue against that
Um
The true fault for this mess lies with the prequel haters think about it
If it wasn't for them lucas wouldn't have sold lucas film place the blame where it belongs. I
I how isn't george lucas's fault that they fucked up. No, you say it's the prequel haters fault
Oh, no, what's the hell is that made these shitty movies? I was gonna say what would you in that case?
If this film was great, would you say we should thank the people who hated the prequels that we got this because I wouldn't
I just feel like these films remember they had complete and total creative freedom to make a series whenever
However, along with whatever characters they wanted about anything they they wished
Yeah, there's only a pressure though rushed into it or you know, i'm a fair man if it was a good film
I'd want to celebrate the writers directors and actors. I'd be like you guys did a good job
But if it's the reverse I tend to blame the writers directors
It's just like it's more awkward, but it's negative, isn't it?
Doesn't know writers directors have agency
It's like the people that say well, you should blame the prequel the people that uh, hated the prequels for where we're at now
It's like the prequels were bad
How is that a defense?
Yeah, I mean, you know, what if what if george lucas's visions of star wars were even worse than this?
We don't know. We we can't know
well
I doubt it, but we don't
Well, we we talked to that guy who was like, oh they were gonna be
Midgets like I said though. I want to see that now just to compare
Like how goofier sounds sounds a lot more because you know what despite the goofiness
You know that all the characters will be consistent and they'll probably have some epic steedons, you know
Which would be nice. But uh, yeah, it's been fun listening. I'll watch the rescue rest at work. Uh, good night. Good night
Have fun at work
Good night and good luck. Don't destroy any dreadnoughts. That's bad. What if gorman's first name from aliens is norman?
norman
Drink every time aliens gets referenced. It's gonna come up more i'm pretty sure uh, so good though. This is so bad
Top gun would give this guy a heart attack
Gandalf the witch king whoops Gandolfini
Uh and the king of rohan then a woman killed him and no one gave a shit. That's actually a really good point
Because that happens in lord of rings the witch king defeats gandalf the witch king nearly kills king theod and those two are two
Of the biggest male hour characters in the the whole series. So
But she stabs him in the back because she's a coward. She stabs me in the face
Oh, I thought no, she stabbed him in the back and then stabbed him in the face. No, no
Pippin stabbed him in the back
It was mary that was well pippin was the oh, yeah mary because pippin was in the city. Yeah
Well, yeah, if mary didn't stab him in the back then she wouldn't have been able to kill him
She got it. Yeah, he he said he got an assist for that
So the male back stabbed while the woman fought gallantly with respect. It's like a battlefield where it's like assist counts as kill
So technically mary was the one that killed the witch king of anglo
This school this school for days over that we got if you get a chance, please take a look at film joys
Let's talk about thanos curious how you guys would react to that one. We've got a thanos video
That's potentially coming. Oh my god. People are saying mary pippins in the cat
Palpatine and the emperor did nothing wrong
Obviously and do you guys find it interesting that no one is talking about solo but people are still talking about the last jedi
It's because solo is so forgettable
like yeah, it's
It's just such a shit movie. That's like no one even thinks it's good
So you say to use the culinary phrase it is milk toast
No, it's uh, this fucking movie's raw and then battle star galactica starbuck anyone not seen it alex. Have you seen that?
Yeah
What's starbuck?
She's the
Starbuck's the hotshot pilot who?
played like a
shack off or whatever
He so but she's female so he doesn't count. She's a master tomboy. I told you before about that show
it has a lot of female characters in the
uh
high power
Power we're saying it like there's an example. It's just like why why are we why are we in this position?
It was always normal. Why is it gonna be why have they made it so unnormal that it's like, oh, yeah
women doing
Was one of the first shows like to kind of get like uh flack for it and I was back in like 2005
It was like quite woke. I was gonna say buffy was uh started 27. So
Well, well, I'm neglecting to mention the context
The original show in the 70s
Starbucks was a bloke who was played by who was a a hot-headed
Misandrist kind of thing or misogynist rather not misandrist. He doesn't hate men. Um,
He doesn't hate women either. You know, he's like james bond or whatever
and like they they while they changed him into a woman and then they added several other characters into
uh position of power that women and
Yeah, it's it's a bachelor for other reasons, but you know, that's like something that was like highlighted like when it first came out
Um, well, yeah, anyway, thank you all for the very kind donations. We're gonna carry on with the video
Hopefully get to the end of it before I do sort of like a break again
I'll do that last one. I tried to watch rogue one and couldn't get into it or couldn't get into there enough
It's still typically looked at as the best of disney's films as far as i'm aware
that high bar I know
But let's bill
Bilbo's butter a star wars story
It was a there was a picture of I meant to send it to you guys
I think if I could get it on my phone, but it was like, um
It was three paint types
Uh that someone was holding in a store. One of them was like sweet baby boy, sweet baby girl and butterscotch
Lemon or something and it was like yeah, the only three choices for jed does
this is like
And he gets insane
Anyway
Yeah, I think I think it was like the three categories of jed or something like that
But uh, well, it sounds like a very tasty gender if I do say so. Yeah, I would definitely give it a shot
But um, all right, let's hear about how this toxic masculinity destroyed the film
Poe dameron's story
Is that of a cocky headstrong?
Never tell me the odd style male hero who is repeatedly never tell me the odds
He weighed up the odds and decided that he had to save everyone's lives
Just to clarify it wasn't a
Random decision. It's like is this the first draft of a macintosh? Um
Video where he just writes shit down and has some clips here and there and
I guess it goes over most people's heads like they don't even it was like other people are desperate to value
You know, um, I think it's the gray joys in uh game of thrones
The the the words of their house is we do not so the words of these guys's house would be we do not qualify
It's basically never prove never provide evidence. No references. It's almost a bad thing to do that
Just say it's just the retarded
Well logic is bad
I love that. She says that it's supposed
You you bet the survival on bad odds. It's like compared to death
Like I would pick bad odds on that every day bad odds over dying
Until he finally learns to listen to and
You can't make that argument unless she told him there was nothing to listen to
So
I really wish the ryan had written it so that he knew
Because this argument would be so much easier to have because you could just be like, okay
Yeah, he was being a bit of a dick
But uh, the argument will probably be about how they changed his character
Like he wouldn't have done that no sane person would have but at least that would be something but he never knows
All three of you dead or no, no, I would my my hands were my hands were full. Let me put my thingy on this
So
As episode eight begins well, hold up let's go back a little bit that's actually a
Interesting thing he said is a man
Until he finally learns to listen to and trust women in positions of power
I mean like how he did with leah for the entire movie. This is about him respecting
trusting women in power
Well, yeah, it has nothing to do with the information. This is what mackintosh does
How do I make this a gender issue? I was gonna say he did deny leah in the opening wolf. Remember he did
He muted it. Yeah, but when he was like aiming his gun at the
Door and she came through he was like, oh, hey, it's leah. She's gonna help and then she shoots in
Leia's not retarded. She'll see things from my perspective
Which by the way, why shoot him she literally could have just been like put your gun down you idiot. We have a plan
And
Then again, maybe holder was like, yes layer I told him the plan and he's defying me anyway
Are there layers like really and she says that to po on this ship opposed like no she didn't
layers like
hmm
That's strange
I thought she told you but okay
We're done with po on to finn as episode eight begins finn is a man obsessed
He wants nothing more than to find his friend ray and then get as far away
He's a man obsessed and I was like is that
He's he's just admitted by the way
The remember earlier he was like finn begins the film as being you know, cowardly selfish and all that stuff
And he's just established also he kind of cares about ray I guess
And driven by a lack of faith what driven by a lack of faith
What lack of faith in what
Driven by a lack of faith that's amazing considering the circumstances remember finn knows that they can't escape the first order finn knows
Remember everyone faith is bad
Faith is not a good thing faith is not a virtue. You don't want to have faith in things. Hey, faith is not good
Is it faith in resistance?
Do you think you say faith in women? Is that what it's gonna be?
Unless it is faith in Allah
He's convinced that the fight against the first order is a lost cause he is
But it is though that's the funny thing it's like well it is a lost cause
Because nobody told anyone the plan
I can see how it is. I don't see how that was his thing
This all comes down to the fact that nobody ever knows the plan like if you at least
Just tell him the plan I honestly if ryan had helped show me a script. I would just be like, yeah
Rewrite with people knowing the plan. It's very easy
You just have to make po under suspicion for being a mole and how do we do that?
Well have him get everyone killed in the opening and what i'm saying is he blocks the communications off from layer
And then he sends them in and exits the battle himself
And so it's like hmm. That's a bit dodgy then that's all operating into the fact that he destroyed star killer base
That's the problem. That's what makes it really difficult. But uh, it's like even with all that you're like man
It's like
There were arguments in the i'm not even kidding the first couple of days because I was curious as to what people were thinking about it
I remember on reddit reading someone saying that um
She did think he was a mole and one of the biggest reasons is that most war hero
Most moles will typically be war heroes or they were war heroes and they've turned and that he was the biggest war hero in star wars
That makes sense. Where did they get that idea? Well, first of all, yeah, i'm like, is that actually a thing?
Are war heroes?
Typically turned into moles or is it?
You know some other kind of system but uh not to mention it's like I don't know. I think that's a bit too big
It's just like the star killer base
Maybe benedict arnold
But he's not exactly a typical case
Yeah, that's in chat as well. It's like but is there is that is there more than that like
It's and he destroyed star killer base is no small thing. All right, like that's
I mean, I know that they treat it like a small thing in the films because if you guys remember star killer base
In words is not even mentioned in this film
It got destroyed like yesterday. By the way, I really like Benedict Arnold in turn. Great show. I really like that show
I just
It's just all wrong. Yeah, I think someone out he wasn't even a mole
He's just he's just a traitor
Well, we have to consider it's like there's no mention of a mole
So even if it made sense narratively that he could be considered a mole
It's never mentioned in between the lines and who lets a mole run around the ship
Like if you really thought he was a mole put him in the brig
Yeah, like report on the inside of this cell
Doomed it if my friend comes back to it. She's doomed too
Enter rose taiko taiko
I'm pretty sure everybody doesn't have ever heard taiko. I've never I've never heard taiko before
Enter jonathan mackintosh's typo. I'm curious. Do they ever say rose tiko in the film or is that something that everyone's just come up with?
I'm pretty sure they said it in the film because now
Because I want to make a point
I want to make a point about how he's using the film for his own purposes and that he doesn't actually he doesn't actually pay attention
He didn't actually give a shit. No, he clearly doesn't pay attention
Well, he he's got a video where he explains that he does massive amounts of research and he needs the patreon funding for that
Thunderf00t went over it. Um
so that's definitely
He's saying that he massively researched this film. So i'm assuming he must have seen a video where someone said rose tiko
People are saying uh taiko bell in the chat
like
You can tell by this picture that rose eats a lot of taiko bell rose taiko low ranking
Oh, do you guys love that as well she's a fan of finn's exploits like he's a war hero when it literally happened like hours ago
How'd they know?
I don't know. This is the thing though. They're inconsistent on it because it's like did it happen hours ago
Was it days ago? Was it a week ago? Was it minutes ago?
It's like i'm not actually sure because of the way they frame everything
Yeah, famed war hero tells me he's going on a secret mission. I'm like, okay, you are a war hero
Because it's implied right
The uh, they knew the base. It's the same base at the beginning as as the force awakens one
Like it looks exactly the same so it's implied that the star killer base was destroyed hux made his way to the
Supremacy and they hyperspaced to the planet where the resistance works
They knew where they were so it's like, okay, so that's we're looking at potentially an hour there
It's like that could be as quick like why wouldn't it be and i'm just saying you're thinking like
Yeah, use face twitter
Rose typhoid
When she realizes he's not really the committed resistance hero, but he is he's heard stories about her disappointment is powerful
The thing about that is that he's not necessarily the resistance hero, but he's not lying
And he's not running away from a fight because he's a coward
She's completely and totally wrong
Yeah, i was gonna say like
He's treating she he treats it like as if she's the moral arbiter here when it's like, well, I I always thought she was out of line
Oh, oh
Like how dare you?
He he he doesn't use I don't think he uses uh the bay in those words cow, but uh
He does put it on the pedestal
Rose takes on the role of
Oh my god
Guide
How is she a guide to anything?
Well, you see fin whenever you can save an animal or a human being you should always choose the animal
Rose piscito. Yeah
Yeah leave the little kids behind
You you little kids can be slaves forever, but we're gonna take all the animals let them all out
They're gonna get a they're gonna get a day of vacation
We're gonna how could he he has to come in on that?
There's no way he could leave that that's such a prime real estate to make his positions stronger. It's gonna come up
I mean, maybe she's his mentor in a sense. That's like teaching him how not to act
She's the one who pulls back the curtain to expose the oppression festering just below the surface of the galaxy
Maybe it's just it's this particular place that that's happening
It's and it's so out of no way. You're just like what even is this place?
Why do we care and and it's like who are these people? So
It's like are these these good guys? It's like no they're war profiteers and look they're using slave labor. It's like oh, okay
If it was a well-established place that's like, you know showed up in all the films as well
I got there. They'd be like, oh, like this is a different view and this you know
But it's not it's just this shithole
It feels like this place was invented just to make this point. Yeah. Yeah, like this is capitalism is bad
And I stand by what I
What I said in my video like to profit from war is like this specifically awful thing
And it's like are you telling me that they've designed and created weapons and ships and they sell it to whoever buys?
And that makes the monsters i'm like, hmm
Not sure about that considering it's essentially
What goes on these days people make weapons or tools you could actually refer to them down at one point
Like these people are morally neutral. They just make something and sell it and it's like, oh wait
That's capitalism the resistance buys it the first order for some reason. Yeah, that's the thing the good guys are buying it too
So what's the difference?
So if if the worst is that they're lawful
neutral
The at the worst they're lawful neutral
But no, they're treated as the villains practically
Yeah, why can't the richest planet just have robots
Why do they particularly like bother having children that they have to like feed and like, you know, like keep it
But you know torture and keep in line against stand by what we're saying. It should be droids. It shouldn't be kids
Yeah
This is again like
Child's leave leave or whatever, you know, it's it's so hot right now. I don't know
That's not I don't get it. And again just to reinforce what right said
It's like they really sell this scene. It's like these are the evil guys and then we find out minutes later
Oh, yeah, they actually supply the good guys by the way, too
You're like wait what and it's like there are no such things as good people bad people
I was like, okay, I guess
I'm glad I learned I i'm glad disney is here to teach me about the perils of capitalism
I'm not even kidding. That almost feels like a scene that should have been cut the one where he explains that there's
You know, there's they're on both sides and the you should just abandon the the whole point of it
I know that the whole thing was supposed to be that fin hears him out and then decides no
I will fight for the good people but to me I was just like his point is
That the people are getting judged here for doing x
That's in favor of bad guys, but it's also in favor of good guys
So what is your point and then fin takes from that? I will fight for the resistance. You're like, wait, what?
How does that work
Unlike layer
A lot of people have explained by the way, it's so strange that they have this fucking blueprint of the supremacy on board
It's like how do you have that?
White sounds like it'd be something they would hold pretty close to look how detailed it is, dude. That's a room right there
It's literally got like beeps and the lines on the doors of the walls. It's like wow, that's a that's an amazing blueprint
You got there
Seems like something they wouldn't want you to have we spend an entire movie
rogue one
Like this you guys just have it and i'm like, oh
I was oh that was easy
Yeah, it's like a wikipedia wherever rose holds no formal position of power
But she does speak from she hang on. She holds no formal position of power. She fucking blew up
I guess that doesn't count as a formal position of power
Let me get to it because it's gonna be cringe
Thank god position of moral authority
I wish I could put my fist through this whole lousy beautiful town
She articulates the political and moral reasons why the resistance is necessary
the ri-
They literally hours ago hours ago. They were in power
Yeah, and now they already have secret symbols and it doesn't make sense it's insane
It's like you guys came
You guys were dominating the galaxy that they get attacked and I was like the resistance we need they need to exist to fight
The regime it's like what regime the first order haven't even established their government yet
It's insane
I would understand the way that I perceive it everybody in the galaxy would just be confused like what's going on
Like if you if say earth is just one planet among the millions in the galaxy we find out
The republic has been destroyed all five planets that attain to it and the first order of taken power. We'd be like
What does that mean?
Okay, does that affect our taxes?
Yeah
I don't know and it's like you need to join the resistance to fight them. I'd be like why
Yeah, exactly
There's a video i'm watching now
Called I was watching this last night
Star wars the last jedi the end of a dream by bandit incorporated
and he was in his part one he talks a lot about like the
Like the empire and stuff and you know
They they were probably very useful and the republic wasn't very useful and you know
The good and the bad aspects of the empire versus the republican stuff and how in the story it just doesn't really make any sense
That people would be you know, the way that they are
And this point gets raised over and over and over again is like who who's in control?
Why do people care if they're in control?
How does this compare to the republic?
It's all one big mess because there's no world building. No, we don't know what the fuck's going on
And and you just you think about it for five seconds
Imagine the huts the the the huts are all in desert planet areas and they're just like
Oh the first order's ruling now, huh?
Okay
Well, he was he was pointing out in um in episode four
About how like stormtroopers are just walking around
keeping order
You know trying to minimize crime to some degree if you didn't bother them, they didn't bother you
You know, it's like you don't care if you got bigger problems than the uniforms of the police officers
It's also confusing because uh
They're saying like this is why we need the resistance and it's for the horrible things happening in this place
That's not aligned to either the first order or the resistance. It's both
Technically just like fighting their first order doesn't actually do anything for this area
Because they'll just carry on
I mean how this area wouldn't be this way if if uh,
The resistance didn't allow it because the resistance have been in power the whole time
But they still would have it just would have their clients would have changed
That's all that would have been affected
Yes
And and when you look at it, it's like a um
It is going back to
I think I forgot
Oh, yeah, um the empire remember in episode four, uh, the first time we see vader choking the dude at the table and
Grandma tarkin's there. They they talk about the provincial
Yeah, the the the provincial governors of the planets
Yeah, so arguably planets were more free under the empire than they were public
Yeah, I I I think so
Oh the very least it's complete. It's so unclear in this film to compare that you just like
Have to accept it because what else is there?
Yeah, it's like you could basically you could rule your planet. However, you wanted as long as you obeyed the empire
So is that the reason the empire did nothing wrong the reason these guys are evil the can't abide
The can't abide people are evil because they sold shitty bombers the resistance
Yeah, I guess they fucked them up on that deal, but uh, you'll love these they're great. Yeah, it was great
Super durable. So what happens right is when you break all this down, it doesn't make sense
The conclusion is oh, they're just moralizing. They're basically just taking this scene to say, you know slavery is really not a good thing
Animal cruelty is really not a good thing
And they're a bad size to capitalism that we need to address
It's like slavery is bad animal cruelty is worse
and so what you what you can do especially because of how
Pointless fin's b plot is is cut all this out and the film just cuts to a halt
And it just cuts to a white room and a chair and someone sits down and says slavery is bad
Child cruelty animal cruelty. That's bad
And then it cuts back to the film and we're like, okay
It's about as subtle
It's very confusing as well because it's so rushed like as I hit everything pointed out I believe it's seven minutes
And despite that everyone feels like this was the longest part of the film
Okay, I know it's insane and in doing so she inspires
I think it might have been 13 minutes and seven percent of the film
I can't remember what the numbers were but it's like wow, that was short compared to how it felt way longer than it was
To finally identify as a rebel
I still think that's a mistake. He's supposed to say resistance
Because they say resistance I had rebels in the film
Several times because they just interchange them because yes, like let's be honest
They just they it was the exact same thing as the ot they just changed the names
The first order they may as well just say empire because you know, why not
And it's her role as moral compass to both fin and to the audience
That's responsible for good portion as if we needed to be told that the stuff going on here was not good. Like come on
And this stuff came out of nowhere if this was like established in the force awakens
And maybe it was even by people
Imagine the connection where the force awakens shows that the resistance are getting supplied by these people
And then in the background they just let this go on. They're just like, oh, yeah
Well, we need the weapons so and then rose is the character that says we have to stop them
I know that we need them, but this is wrong, you know, that could be something
I know that happens
It's still a pragmatic argument
Like we need the weapons regardless. We just have to be honest
Yeah
The character who says if we stop them then we lose the war and then they do it even worse probably
That could be interesting
That would be interesting which is why it's not in this fucking movie
You know loud interesting things of the rage directed at rose's character from the more toxic side of star wars fandom
Yeah, we're toxic because of how awful she's written
Oh my god, what is the back of this dude's helmet?
It protects his neck from
It's steer boys that's what it is you steer boys look he's even got like a big lightsaber
They all do apparently standard issue
Many of these guys can't help but view a woman who is serving as teacher to male heroes. What is she teaching him?
What is she teaching him?
What is she teaching him?
I think I think he's trying to argue that is he joins the resistance because the resistance stops bad things from the universe from happening
And he needs to learn that that's what he needs to do
I think that's it. It's so horribly executed that i'm like confused. But yeah, I guess
maybe
But yeah, that's ridiculous
It's here. It's weird that he would dig so deep into that but all the other just lines in the film that contradict him
Apparently just don't matter
I'm still i'm assuming you have to go for that part of the film when you talk about, you know
Moral lessons because it's so like how could you not it's it's just prime so fucking ham fisted and in your face
You may as well take the offer because you know
That's what it's there for it's practically written that way as anything other than preachy annoying
Forum, how is it not preachy to be like?
Look, this is bad
I don't understand like that's like the definition
Masculating are you kidding me?
The fact that rose also happens to be played by an actress of color only magnifies their anger
I like that. He says actress of color when showing that she's practically like just as white as anyone else you've seen
No, she's asian. That means something to people I guess
Actress of colors just funny. She has squinty eyes. That means that she is
unique
Somehow but hoe's not white really
Come on
I want morgan freeman to be on the set when he says actress of color and then morgan freeman says i'm not an actor of color
i'm an actor
Yeah, why why are you taking you know, why are you adding modifiers to what I am? It's very
You piece of shit. It's it's like why why are they why why have you segregated them? That's fucked up, dude
They're just actors and they're actors of color
And yes
We're not even assessing the whole fact that he's like girl. She they they kind of hate her because she's an actress of color
It's like I i'm okay with that personally. I can let you know and you'd be like, no, no, you're not and i'm like, okay
Let me tell you how you feel. Well, you know what i'll say this at least she's not a jew
Then I would have had a lot of problems with it
it's like uh
He's gonna use you one day wolf as an example
You'll be like this this wolf person who I don't even think they're a real wolf and he'll be like
exposed
Someone sent me a dm on discord. They said hey rags. I don't mean to bother you but watching the current stream
I feel like you guys are missing an opportunity on talking about how jared is ignoring all the problems that poor world building causes to the movie
Like how rose is apparently holding back volunteers from leaving. She's not really working as a guard keeping people from running away
She's just keeping them from trying to survive
Oh, well, we did go over like how I don't think that was sanctioned
I think it was kind of like a crazy person thing that she's doing. Yeah, we we talked a little bit about it
We're basically she seems she does seem vigilante ish
And now you don't get to leave yeah
And how like i'm pretty sure you can leave uh, what is essentially a militia because it's voluntary
Did you mean to say john not jared?
I was gonna say he said jared
Because I was expecting
I was expecting something else and then it was like a serious question and I was like this doesn't sound like jared
Was john using jared response theory I would answer it
No, this this this doesn't make enough sense
The other reason for the backlash against rose is because she interrupts finn's big heroic sacrifice
Yeah, she basically dooms the resistance. She she killed everybody. That's not going to be what he says
It's not the very least this scene did at least accurately portray
female asian drivers
You're like the evil one
Where's film's final battle. Hey, I just say it embarks on a self-destructive charge. I mean, can you say that when she nailed her target?
Well, yeah
She she was very accurate
Typically you're not supposed to crash your car
On purpose. Yeah, but her goal was to save finn and somehow what she did actually achieve that goal
I'm not saying that
It was logical
So she did it she achieved a goal
She's the hero of the film wolf and you just hate asian people which is kind of why you don't like it
That's true. Someone in the chat said that you're not funny
But his judgment is clouded by his eagerness to act on his newfound convictions
How is his judgment clouded if he doesn't do this the resistance is dead
That's the thing this scene is so easy to fix all you need is some character to say
Wait, it's a goomba floomba cannon, which means it's immune to things going into it and then finn is like
Or you'll be incinerated before you can get to the cannon or something like that. Yeah. Yeah, even that so easy
And then finn says
No, like this will work. He just keeps saying this will work or something like that
His vision is clouded by the melanin in his skin, but like they they go over quite heavily about how this is the right decision
Like and then they just don't
It's just like this is the most like indefensible thing in the film for so many people
And it's like it's desperation to try and how do I flip this scene?
To make it to what I need it to be
instead of what it obviously is and yeah, and what we just brought up means that it's damaged to be able to
Describe this scene as rose saves him from making a reckless decision that only would have killed himself
It's like but that's not what we were shown
We were shown and told that he was going to do something that would save the entire resistance and by her doing what she did
She's killing everyone including them too. So
How can how can I follow you on this idea of your theme? It doesn't make any sense
As the movie makes clear finn's suicide attack is doomed to fail no, it doesn't no
We think it's working everyone in the theater thought that he was going to sacrifice himself and save the resistance
Yeah, see because when I watch this video earlier and he said that I was like, oh shit
I can't remember because it's like nine months ago when I watched this film last
So I was like what but how did they make it clear because he doesn't show it but he keeps saying that they did it
And I was like
He's just he's just fucking shitting on me. He's just fucking lying
um
What I remember and again, I'd have to watch it again is that we it shows po
Recognizing that all of his men are getting killed like they're just getting blown up and then he's like nah
This isn't gonna work. He's like we're all gonna die before we reach the target
So fuck it. Let's go back and then fin doesn't and you're like, okay finn's gonna get blown up before you can reach the cannon
Then yeah, because you have those 12 laser cannons pointing right at him, but no
He's like three meters away from the cannon when he gets stopped and you're like wow he probably would have doing
And this is the thing
It's all incompetence of writing and direction for that one
Because if it was like scenes that you could have edited to make that clear then that's what you should have done
But it was not clear at all
And so the audience was confused and I still think it's the worst piece of dialogue in the history of star wars when she says
You have to protect what you love as the resistance gets exploded in the background
It's the most hilariously incompetent moment in the history of the saga
Poe tells him so
Yeah, but that's the point isn't it kamikaze he knows that's the that's the point of the sacrifice
He's gonna die to do it
The the cannon being charged doesn't then mean that the cannon cannot no longer be destroyed as if like the charging means it has a shield now
Yeah
Because their their ships don't have guns on them. Yeah, all they could do apparently is just rab. I don't even know
Yeah, I don't even know why they left the cave
What what what exactly was the plan?
It was a suicide run. I assumed it always was
I assumed that they were always planning on whoever reaches the reaches the target has to drive right in down its throat, you know
I can't remember were they aware of the uh, the escape out of the back of the cave or whatever the time
I remember
No, they weren't
All right, which makes it worse because yeah, the crystal fox boys hasn't hadn't run away into the cave yet or something
The decision is okay. We're not going to do our plan now. We're all going to die instead
Okay, if they'd known about the secret exit they could be like we'll go with that plan
It seems better. Yeah. Yeah, it could have been like a noble like
As they are who knows what they would have decided but if people stayed outside or whatever like, you know
They give them time to escape or whatever, you know, but no, no, there's nothing. Yeah, literally
It's it's a writing thing. They go they they have the droids c3po and rtt2 or bba
Whoever they figure out that there's absolutely no way of getting out of the cave
The only way through is the front door and then once all this scene is over those very same droids go there could be a way out
Well, they do say that don't they it's like we've checked for exits and there are none
As i'm saying it's a writing thing
It's to generate tension for this fight because we know that this is the only way they can win and then when this fight ends
They go. Oh actually there is a way out. It's like oh
Oh, well, okay, and it's it's just because that's good. He writes everything in the moment
I think ryan johnson's just like oh this works for now. This works for now
It's like you remember the ot the prequels everything else. He's like, huh?
Um, never pay attention to our precious crystal fox boys instead that'll work
We have we have pretty animals
And we see finn's rickety air speeder falling apart around him
Exactly. It was actually pretty good. I was like, oh bad. He's actually gonna die for this
Honestly, I would have given this movie like almost a fraction of a point just if they killed fin
Because that would have been like an actually cool scene. Well, plus it means less fin in the next film. Oh
I don't hate finn
He's fine
I was expecting to say like there's less minorities. Oh, well personally
Well, I mean hey john does have a point we need more white people back in star wars guys
What increased diversity you gotta get rid of all the other ones clearly
You gotta get rid of the actors of color. Is that what you're saying?
Um, no the others
Are you saying this is a correlation?
Between the amount of minorities in star wars and the quality of star wars. Wow
I guess one goes up the other one decreases. Is that what you're saying? Look i'm just saying
that the jewish media decides to put
All of these
All of these others
Did you notice that when they started adding actors of color into the series how many frogs that were gay started turning up?
Just a question. I mean that's
Correlation does mean causation sometimes just saying more minorities more plot holes
Exactly
You could this is the point you could make that video and it would be as well researched as this fucking video
Yeah, basically, that's all I had to do. I could just play random clips from star wars be manipulative
That's all you have to do. Just just ignore what actually happens in the film sell your your agenda
You'll appeal to every person who already agreed with this before they even watch the video
done
And and i'm serious if you actually made an argument for how um
The increase of diversity adds to the plot holes. There's people out there who would watch that and say it's true
Someone said that's true though. That's the thing. It is true. I'm not saying they're correlated, but it is true
Someone in the chat said that the dag of a water made yoda gay
Yoda's a gay
They're making our yoda's gay
But finn is so focused on striking a below against the first order that he can't see how ineffective this strategy is
How is it ineffective? It's not ineffective
Stop it
Stop lying. It's not working
Yeah, there is no understanding that his action amounts to a noble but senseless sacrifice rose steps in
Saves everybody
I love how he just casually jumps over the fact that rose managed to get ahead of the guy who was at the front
And then curve around and not shot by any of the fucking 8080s or whatever. Yeah, like they're just looking at this happen
They're just trying to destroy our laser, sir. That's fine. They're not even looking they're all just like pointed forward
You don't see it. Let's do this in the uh, well, you can't see it on the stream
But on the still that i'm looking at they're like just looking forward then even looking at
Rose and fin they don't
This is why it's problem that they create the scene
This tension because the good guys are flying against all this these bad guys that are shooting we're like, oh my goodness
You know, they're all going to get killed and then they literally switch off the 8080s just switch off and you're like, oh
Okay
Bit strange like I love that
I hope he shows the clip where they land outside of the 8080s and you can just see that the 8080s essentially watching the scene
Like I wonder what's gonna happen with these two. Like I wonder if they'll make it. Wait, Frank
I want to see what they do in from himself
Almost kills him in the process. He both should have died. That's all that could have happened
Like wouldn't it have just been hilarious if they both just exploded right there. See you need more than independence day
That's just one example of a guy who killed himself to kill the enemies framed as a way for men to prove their bravery
That is a way for men to prove bravery. It's not the only way
Well sacrifice not that
This guy saves earth
This i'm gonna put something controversial out there. I disagree with macintosh to sacrifice yourself to save your family is quite brave
I'm saying I know that's crazy and I know that I need to prove it. No, no, you have to
know because
um you have
because women
You can't do it because it's reckless
Their convictions their love and even their manhood
Hello boys
What does that have to do with manhood by the way
This face represents manhood
But you literally could have had that be a mother who was a good pilot
I wouldn't have given a shit and and they even established this earlier in independence day because he's the crazy guy
He said he got abducted by aliens. He's crazy. Yeah
And now he's like yeah, guess what bitch? No one believed me, but they're you know
I just want more examples because it's always down to context every time there's been a
Someone in chat said borrow me and it's like well. Yeah. Yeah, but you know, like what was he gonna do right away?
It'll be really awkward actually, but you know
Yes, it was really brave because he died for two people that he didn't even really know
Just because it's the right thing to do
He believed in the fellowship
Who were friends with the guy that he tried to steal the ring from like yeah
Oh
Right, you need to put rad decoy is the epitome of masculinity with that screenshot of the shit
He was doing on youtube or wherever it was and then just quote after it. John at the back and talk
Everyone knows jonathan mackett the epitome of masculinity. Absolutely. Oh, yeah with that, but that little voice his gut
You
He's packing guns
I still love that bit and independence
Movies tend to romanticize images of men going out in a blaze of glory. Yeah, just like they would for any woman
It's people man
Stop making an agenda
It's like look at those celebrated masculinity it's not like it will just say
In every film where like, you know, the guys in like military like taking their headsets off and screaming it's the best bit
Everybody gets to live now then someone in the room is like this is a bit toxic
It's like the best season like the martian and the montage film shit
Wolf likes that film we get to we get to live the human
Have you considered the toxic masculinity that was displayed by randy quaid when you save the
World i'd like to clarify the invasion the moment in which you save the world. Could you do it less?
Masculincially next time. Yes. Could you apologize to um?
For offending the aliens
Wait what even when their sacrifice well, hang on that's not a sacrifice
I mean, I guess you could argue he could have lived instead of him. Yeah, he could have pulled her off the
I think but
But one of only one of them could have lived and he chose to not overpower her basically, which is what he could have done
Wow, that's an interesting way to look at that. Uh, I guess
I only call out pollers. It's like you really buy bloody hell
We're selling this bit it's like a masculinity thing. Okay. Wow, like I just I mean he it's it's
You know like he he
You know he he would rather die
It so that she could live, you know
Just it is self-sacrifice
Do you know what?
What is he arguing that we should have seen him go all the way to the bottom and then he floats back up
A little bit further away gets onto a thing and he's like i'm okay. Actually
That's good
She floats towards him she's like do you see sacrifice is not the way and he's like oh, yeah, I know I understand
I'm struggling to understand how you could even think
I mean, I can't think of a less masculine movie than titanic
It'd be honest. I'm just this is such a strange
two things to compare
Titanic literally uses women and children first as an actual thing
Maybe that maybe that's in with the whole sacrifice thing. I don't know. Has he got a theory example i'm expecting a theory more unnecessary
unnecessary
unnecessary
Yeah, I don't follow
Wait, how is this one unnecessary? Oh, yeah, he fucking blockades the entire area so that they can't be chased. How is that unnecessary?
He does
This notion that death and violent death in particular is redemptive how many times you're gonna die a non-violent death exactly
Oh my god, it's not
He just wanted him to peacefully have a heart attack before he exploded wouldn't that still be kind of violent
I don't know. Maybe I need to check the definition
Yeah, it would restorative for men
Is so deeply ingrained in media that many angry fans are adamant that finn's misguided kamikaze attack would yeah
But it's not misguided you're misguided. You have no idea what happens in the scene
The film gives us every reason to believe that it would work
They give us no indication whatsoever that it would not work
the characters believe it
everyone
What in the film tells us that this is misguided in the sense that it won't work?
I guess the whole point that the movie is making
He needs to tell me why it is that it's senseless and all he has is that one line of dialogue from po where he's like
It's not going to work. It's a suicide mission and it's like well. Yeah, it would be if the 8080s continued to work
But they don't
This film is so badly written. It's really hard to make these points and I understand macintosh I do
But you've got to qualify your points. Otherwise, they're worthless and telling me that you've accessed my heart
Figured out that I hate powerful women that teach men things and that I hate asian people or actors of color
I don't believe you
Because i'm me so I know me better than you do
Have succeeded despite the film explicitly telling us otherwise. No
No
It absolutely does not
No, he just said it's a suicide mission, which is exactly what we thought it was
Yeah, that's what everyone thinks because it is that's what it's supposed to be. That's the plan
You know what? The plan is you probably don't
These fans are incensed that a woman got the big damn hero moment
She did not get the hero moment roast. She's not a hero
She doomed the rebellion. She literally killed everybody
Everyone in the theater hated this character because it's retarded what she did
Well, he's arguing we hate her because she's the hero which again aliens ding. I guess what to aliens
It was this movie. I don't know. I don't hate her because she's a hero
I hate the character because she's characters retarded. No you hate her because she's a hero. Stop it. You're rude mean
I hate her because she's asian just saying
There you go mackintosh you've got one out of four that's good enough
And she got it in their view by robbing a male hero of his chance at martyrdom. Jesus christ. What in the world?
What's the planet? I I so glad that I don't see movies through this gendered lens. Everything's about
Everything is about fucking gender. I just picture like what we're seeing right now
He's seeing something completely different. It's like a completely different film instead of clips
He's just seeing this whole different thing. We're just like, oh wow, can we watch that?
I want to just see what that is and it like makes sense
Like everything in his film actually plays out the way he describes it and we're just like oh
Yeah, no, i'm sorry
But the film tells us that she's just killed the entire resistance
Of course, I would never look at her as a hero for doing that. That makes no sense
And she did it selfishly if you remember she loves finn so she saved him instead of everyone else
That's absolutely selfish. Yeah, the game the the movie you bait it
It tries to get us to believe that she loves finn. I guess I guess she does
because
I don't know
because she does
and
Stuff and the outfit is like why did you do that? Just like yeah, the whole audience feels that way
Why the fuck did you do that? Yeah, yeah, I want to yeah, like shut up. Let her answer. I want to hear
But why did you do that?
Because i'm asian. Yeah, it's retarded
That is it's perfect it's open I saved you
I mean it's honestly played off like a joke and
You know one of the the only way to make it better is if she said I saved the resistance and in the background
We see every resistance character getting hacked away by stormtroopers with axes
It just blood everywhere. She's like I saved them
Oh my god, we saved bikini bottom. She's like she's the villain of the film
She was she's just looks at the cabard smiles at the end
You know what? I know never noticed. Oh my god. No, dude, we're doing luke now. He's gonna do luke now
No, no, go back to the x-wing real quick because you know what? I haven't noticed about that shot
martyrdom he just landed in the water
Hey, you don't know that it might have been land there once upon a time and global warming fucked it
You might have moved it there with the force come on everyone does that why would you move it into the water?
You know what? You know what i'm gonna be cynical for a second
His his ship ended up in the swamp in the originals because of the fact that okay. Well, the swamp is a little bit different
That's what i'm saying ryan johnson was like submerged let's put it under the water because it was like that in the originals
It's like look there's not even a way to climb up from that cliff
Yeah, but he can use the force to fly layer cam
That's true. He probably used that really big fishing stick in fairness. They always had big jumping abilities, didn't they the jedi?
There you go. Look at this massive sharpened wooden stick in the single piece on this island with no trees. All right
When ray finally meets her hero, the legendary jedi knife isn't at all with her hero, he doesn't she doesn't even know he existed
She was like yesterday
I I just love the fact that he said when ray finally meets her hero, it's just focused on the little on the alien
Not on luke
So it's like oh, so that's what she wanted. That wasn't a hero
She expected
Luke skywalker has become a cynical old hermit. Yes, that's true
A man so consumed by fear and guilt that he's turned his back on the resistance
Uh, i'm not sure it's i'd say consumed by fear and guilt
Like I said, his main reason is that the jedi aren't good. That's that's the main
thesis of his position in the film
He's like jedi are bad just as bad as the sith and it makes no sense
Wouldn't say it's out in the chat that yesterday hon solo was her hero
Yeah, she flits between heroes rose tico will be a hero that episode died it's like
Oh, yeah, she just flips switches which hero it is depending on who dies
Like I said, she was not aware that luke actually existed hours ago. Oh, no, wait next movie. It's gonna be lando
Yeah, once you go lando, you never go back
Needless to say I like the luke
Um close himself off from the force and you'll find in many interviews mark hamill
That's the part that you never get he's always like why would I prevent myself from being able to communicate with leah?
I don't get it. It's like I know man. I know
It's okay. It's just we just have to accept it. It's what happened now. That's hey, this comes as a tremendous shock
Both to ray and to the audience
Yeah, that's true
Like ray many star wars fans were expecting luke to appear as a triumphant badass
The one they remember or rather misremember from the original trilogy
misremember misremember
Here we go. What fucking movies are you watching luke was never really depicted as a great jedi warrior
Yeah, he was not a great warrior because he asked han solo to reach for his lightsaber there you go proof
That did he actually think that proves that
I guess
Wow
I would have used uh him getting shot in the hand when he was fighting on the barge
Just to be like he wasn't a great warrior. He got here losing his hand on cloud city
Yeah, but he got a reference episode six. I mean you can't go with five because that's not the end of the story
But again, it's all manipulative. It's completely manipulative
That's the point because imagine he said he wasn't a great jedi warrior and then he showed the clip of him beating vader
You'd be like, all right. Yeah, I better not show that one
When luke says this think what i'm gonna walk out with a laser sword and face down
You know, I really hate the fact that he even called it a laser sword everyone hates that but not to measure dude
Just like help us beat them. Do you think i'm gonna go and fight the ball 1 v 100? It's like no
Help us that he ends up fighting the 1 v 100
With kylo and stuff, you know
Stoke all that yeah again as people point out
It's like that's what he actually does in the end of the film
So if the film is trying to tell us that that's ridiculous and then actually has it happen. It's like, okay
Thanks, I guess his words are a reaction to ray's assumptions
But those lines can also ray's assumption was that he'd help not that he would defeat the entire first order
Okay, i'll be read as a response to fan expectations
Oh, no, not more wizard examples
So it's assumed that hollywood heroes especially men will grow exponentially more you don't know yet gandalf's gender
That's offensive
Okay, gandalf is like literally pretty much an angel in the actual lore. So it's like
Yeah, he's not just a guy
He's not even just like a wizard in the sense like he's an old guy that can use magic. I mean he's like literally like
A completely different being in himself. Yeah, he doesn't even remember his past exploits clearly. He's like wait
Oh, yeah, that was that was gandalf the gray
He literally transcends into a higher being from that
space
space wizard at the west
The expectation is that once a man has conquered his demons those demons will stay conquered forever
I disagree, but that's still you can't just tell us that everything
That came back to him happened off screen. That's bullshit. Yeah
Yeah, it's all because it's all because of how it was hammered not because that's what happened
Luke could have actually been you know a literal like I was gonna I want to say he could be a completely different character
But that is what we got
So, um, he could be a completely different character as long as we saw the progression because the fact is
Luke in episode six and Luke in episode four are very fucking different
But we saw that journey. Yeah, that's the that's the key that everyone seems to just ignore we missed an entire trilogy
But even though luke rejected the dark side back in return imagine a trilogy where luke fights and does everything right
But eventually everything just fucking screws up and he gives up. It's like you could you know that alone
It's like you can write that that would be fucking good if you write it well
Um, I won't maybe laugh as um
Back when like uh, if it's going down to star wars is coming back and mark howls over how you like lost like something like 68
odd pounds like to get back into like some decent shape
And like I didn't expect him to be like doing like all the jumps and flips and the last shit what you know
But at the same time didn't expect him just be like still planted on an island and just so cool the fucking time
That was it, you know
Yes
It's odd and and he does complain about that himself, right? He's like
You didn't need me to lose all that way if I was just gonna stand still
Someone actually made the made the picture on
Um twitter the epitome of masculinity by john mackintosh
If there's anyone you need to trust about the epitome of masculinity, it's john mackintosh
Another person who said he would not mourn for asama bin laden's death
His struggle to resist the temptation of absolute power
Whoa, what the struggle to resist absolute power
I I don't think that's what even the film was saying
I think the film was saying that he's concerned. I'm gonna have to hear that again because that's
That's luke rejected the dark side back in return of the jedi
His struggle to resist the temptation of absolute power isn't over. That's not what happens
He's concerned that kylo's gonna kill his family. That's what actually happens. Yeah, it's not about his personal power at all
No, yeah, it's hinted at that is a complete complete misread. That's not what happens
I have no idea where he's drawing that from I will not turn to the dark side or
I'm trying to think of some line or some scene that
that has him
portrayed in that way, but
And even when he's talking to ray, he never brings up the point of i'm getting too powerful. It's all it's never about me
It's about the jedi. Yeah
The jedi are bad. It's just not what happened
It's a problem with these videos. That's not what happened. You didn't watch the film properly
And even then he says the jedi aren't powerful enough. They weren't powerful enough to stop the sif
It's not that they were too powerful
By the way, that's the only time you're ever going to catch me saying you watched a film wrong is when you literally recant a film
That never happened. That's that's when i'll say you probably watched it wrong
It's like I enjoyed in the last jedi when winnie the poo teamed up with donkey and shrek to defeat
The evil emperor who came back for some reason. I thought he was dead in episode six
Please just back and you're like donkey fucked him up. Um, I don't think I don't think that happened
But I understand that's fair fair assessment. That's a moment of pure instinct. I thought I could stop it
Yeah, he thought he could stop because this is the thing i'm actually defending ryan johnson's script here
I'm like, no, he was trying to explain that luke was concerned
That kyla was going to cause the kind of damage that vader would or did and that he could stop it here and now
I still don't think it's uh enough to get luke to do what he did
But that's what happened showing it isn't it isn't a scene that has a power hungry luke
Who's drunk on his abilities?
Like that's not the luke that they portray luke isn't trying to be super super powerful
Like even the scene that mackintosh is showing here doesn't doesn't uh add to that
It shows a I think even ryan johnson ryan johnson would say that luke in no way
Uh has his power hungry. That's the point. That's one of the chords of his character. He's not about
Gaining power to have power over other people. That's nothing to do with luke
What movie is this guy watching? He's still scared of the darkness hiding inside himself
Yeah, that's that's you buddy just as he was as a young man back on degaba. That's not the same thing
You just said that two and three are the same number
But he showed a clip guys he showed a clip
Although this older version of luke skywalker is consistent with his characterization from the original
It's literally the opposite. How could it possibly be considered consistent at all?
Oh
My god, how could you?
Most people best argument that you can come up with most people that even like this film will admit
Of course, he's complete 180 on his character, but it's explained. That's usually they're not going to deny that he's in character
They're going to deny the reasons are bad. Yeah, everybody agrees luke is not luke like he's a completely different character, but
It makes sense. But it's okay because yeah
Nobody thinks this guy is the same as the guy from episode six because he's literally not the same at all
I don't oh, this is bizarre
Angry fans still believe that the last you see it's an angry fans. It's all they're angry. They're upset. It's their feelings
There's no reason for it. They're just it's just angry. It's nice because it just makes you know, like
What you could argue a synonym of angry almost is like unreasonable, right? It's like
He's trying to imply that it's like they're not they're not thinking they're just angry
Yeah
Watch a video of me not doing any thinking
And I represents a downgrading of his power and his status
Clearly not really wanted he's still incredibly powerful as this film shows apparently
Remember kylo is like if you project yourself across the whole world
It'll kill you and then luke does it and then dies and we're like, oh
Oh
I was really hoping for one of those porgs to like get itself killed tries to swallow the lightsaber it activates it just goes
while the other one's tapping the
buttons on
I didn't see you
The fan fury is exacerbated by the fact that it's a young untrained female Jedi. No, it's just
She's young enough anything to do with it being female what is wrong with you if she's a woman
Why do you keep making it about gender you sexist?
Well, like how like, you know, it's not my fault that she's you know
A terrible actress can't shut her mouth and has the worst character you could ever be applied to film
But it's like hey, you don't even need to make a male version because ray could be a guy's name
I mean honestly stop comparing it to women because the woman part isn't the issue
It's the fact that she's completely like five days ago less than five days before this scene
She had no idea that the force was real had no idea luke skywalker was real
Doesn't make any sense that she's as proficient with the force as she is
Has nothing to do with her being female don't yeah
Can't say enough
How much it doesn't have anything to do with it being female it just doesn't I mean, honestly
Alien is like one of my favorite movies ever and the main character is female. Ding
I think my favorite movie of all time is an all asian cast. There are no white people. That's a lie
All right, they could identify as white
That's also it has to be a lie because what he's just this is the other thing, right?
You know, everyone gets really riled up at our channels for being objective
They're like they think that what they're saying is different
How could you not interpret what this guy is saying is definitively fact he's literally like laying this out as if it's just true
It's not
It bugs me that all he has to do is right at the end go it's my opinion
But you know all the channels that i've watched from geeks and gamers to world-class bullshitters and
Everybody in between never have I ever heard. Oh, she's a woman and that's the that's some sort of argument against the character
I've never ever heard this in my life aliens every time aliens
If anything they always
Preface it that it's not a problem with the women. It's the problem with the character herself
Yeah, because fucking idiots like mackintosh make these videos. I'm like, oh, yeah, it's because they're sexist
I love how they have to pretend as well that layer just doesn't exist in the ot
They're just like no it was han and luke and some other guy called lee I think
Like seriously in almost every single serious video i've ever made I think I almost always referenced alien and aliens
Like even to the point where even the last video I made I was like, I know I always use this as an excuse but
Ripley's awesome. He's gonna wait for the video essay for mackintosh where he's like people only like aliens because she's essentially a guy
in that film
What it'll happen I mean she's she's literally not it doesn't matter he literally made up a scene
Oh, did he oh he's gotta go
Goodbye alex he has uh, he he probably got work quite early because he has to travel a lot
So and yeah, he probably didn't expect us to spend two hours and 20 minutes not even finishing this video
But there we are. Is it really been two and a half hours already? Yes, seriously. Yes. No way. Yes
No way
It started like 440 right so challenges this no, it's been about an hour and 20 minutes
No, it's i've got a counter
What my stream is two hours and four forty
We we've been on this chat. Tell us tell us how long we've been sitting here talking about this shitty mackintosh video
It's been two hours. I would say
Okay, no because we started at 440. It is now six o'clock 20 minutes will take you to five another hour will take you to six
So it's been an hour and 20 minutes. I don't care for your logic because I have a stream counter
That has a little second stream counters raw hours people caddis saying two hours
Two hours. It's two hours
And we've gone through 16 minutes of mackintosh
That's because that's because so much of it is fucking wrong so long. It takes to break down
How wrong it is? Oh, no, wait, we started at 340
There you go. There you go. Oh on his failures
So second just second wolf. Let me let me know if if you're in chat and you're a woman, please correct wolf. There you go
Oh
Young woman reprimand the great luke skywalker. It's not what happens
Hashtag wolf is wrong. Type that in the chat. We all do
She directly confronts him and inspires or is that yoda?
Oh, yeah, yoda's more the character that actually does it than ray you're definitely right on that
You need to speak to ryan johnson mackintosh because you misrepresented this film. Yeah
Because you're not
Could you not make this shitty movie shittier?
It's like it's shitty. It's a terrible film enough to where it could stand on its own awfulness on its own merits
You don't have to make stuff up about it to make it worse. Jonathan
Tell it like it is. It's terrible
Later on yoda offers guidance too
Okay, yoda literally that's kind of a big scene
Luke's angle is i'm gonna explode the jedi text die and everything will be over and then yoda's like i'll
Explode them for you, but go go fight. Go fight. Go on
Go teach ray that being a failure is. Okay, and that's there you go
Hashtag war who opens the door for luke to overcome his paralyzing self-doubt
Yeah, what you just showed us a clip of him finally reconnecting with layer not realizing his self-doubt just clarifying for you
Because obviously you didn't see the film i'm just helping you out
now
Reach out. So instead of seeing the old jedi master teaching ray how to wield the awesome power of the force
Audiences are treated to scenes in which ray reminds luke what it means to be a jedi
Yeah, because he arbitrarily forgot apparently it was just like yes
He was just like yeah, jedi no no better than the sith and it's just like what?
I like it how this the second time where some
somebody shows up with
With no reason to either exist or have knowledge to something telling somebody who should know better
Who has I I don't know this parallel that he's drawn between
Luke luke should know more than anybody else
But ray who has no knowledge about the force or the jedi or anything who just days ago
Thought they were they weren't even real. They were a myth and to clarify
If ray was a guy and luke was a girl this scene would be just as bad
Just just in case mackintosh doesn't quite get that
Of course ray isn't a more powerful jedi than luke and she ends up being wrong about her ability to fix kylo ren
Is that
You're gonna make a point about that more than just saying that because it just again, it's the whole she's just too nice is hira
She believes too much in goodness and she's not wrong
Kylo's suggestion is that we get rid of both teams if you remember and her saying no makes him go evil again
Which is just another problem for his character arc that makes no sense, but
She wasn't wrong. She just didn't get what she wanted
I mean think of how interesting it could have been because kylo wants to get rid of them both luke at one point is like
Yeah, let's get rid of them both and i'm like, okay
That could have been interesting if they did something with that
But I guess yeah like luke and kylo actually like shake hands on this idea and ray's like no the resistance to the good guys
And then luke and kylo like i'm sorry ray. It has to be done
We need to stop this war from continuing or something like that. Like, you know, yeah, they take this pragmatic sort of, um
Approach to it. That's less idealistic
It's like yeah ray maybe but the reality is that this has to stop
Like look what look what I spent so much of my life doing and look where things are now
But she does possess something that he's lost
Ray still has hope. Yeah, I knew it was going to be hope. It's always hope
Hope because it's just so nebulous. It's like
Hope so beautiful everyone have hope he still has conviction and she still has clarity of purpose
Clarity of purpose i'm pretty sure he's clear on his purpose. He wants to die. He says that to us very clearly
The idea that a young woman like ray that's a deleted scene
Yeah, another deleted scene. He likes using his deleted scenes today
Yeah, we have something important to teach an older mythic male hero like luke skywalker
He's erroneously viewed by some male fans as emasculating
Um, I don't know. It's because she doesn't earn the fucking uh winning against luke
Just to clarify in the definition
So emasculating is just depriving a man of his role or identity
like I wonder um if
If ray is literally like usurping him and that doesn't count
I just would like him to give me an example of an emasculation
Just give me an example just so I know what he considers it to be
Because obviously he's got a slightly different interpretation
It's worth pointing out that angry fan defensiveness isn't necessarily you see it's an angry fan defensiveness
That's all there's there's no reasonable people. They're all just angry. There's no reason for any of this
There's no way to explain it all there's no way to formulate an argument for it
It's just angry men angry white men as he said two-minute mark angry white men
But that's that's his shtick
It's identity politics and I don't have any actual arguments
I mean, yeah, make shit up and just call people things
I'd be surprised if he didn't throw that in especially like he he came from feminist frequencies channel
Like how could he not throw that in? He was like the writer
Like all that shit. She says is basically him
Just a reaction to women existing in popular science
existing
Women existing in popular. Are you kidding me?
This is this whole this is what people on the internet do like you if you don't agree with me or
Some facet about me that if there's some part of about me you don't like that means you don't want me to exist
Like you're denying me my existence
He could at least have said they don't like women in power roles and I could be like oh
He said existing now just that they may exist pointing out that angry fan defensiveness
Isn't necessarily just a reaction to women existing in popular science fiction stories
Aliens I would love to get an example of this
aliens
That's popular science fiction story. You dumbass
I have no idea like one of the most influential sci-fi horror movies ever
One of the most influential horror movies ever absolutely. I don't understand where he gets I mean I
Believes it I guess he believes bullshit. Yeah, it's permanently. I mean that's
So
Because we could have mentioned more examples
But the reason we only went with aliens because it's just like I knew that aliens was just going to counter every single point
in this video because
Thank you. James Cameron for creating that film because with alien
She's only the protagonist in like the last third of the film up till then it's like between her and dallas and it's like hmm
Who is the main character but like in aliens?
She's absolutely the protagonist and she fucking grows like crazy in that film
so like it's
It's such a great just fuck you to people like this
That film exists to prove the brog
included alongside male heroes in a way that doesn't overshadow that example stage or
Interfere with traditional experts to be saying the Jurassic world is bad in that department because the woman doesn't upstage the man
I mean the Jurassic world is horrendous, but does it not for that reason I just want to ask Macintosh
Like oh, so she should have upstaged the the hunter
That is perfectly experienced with wrangling dinosaurs in the job of trying to find a dinosaur when she's just a park owner
Is that what you were looking for?
That's a male versus female thing. That's not actually
Yes, of course russians of masculinity let's do one thing straight i'm in charge out here
You do everything I say exactly as I say it and that line is because he's trying to keep her alive
Not because he hates her because she's a woman
Yeah, it's like if I if i'm going hiking and i've never gone hiking before and an expert trail guide
Search and rescue qualified
Navy seal is with me and he's like do what I say
I'm like, yeah, you bet you don't have tell me if you were a woman in that scenario you would be offended
That's what Macintosh is arguing. So he's trying to mansplain her
Just relax
Then we don't see these same kind of extended temper tantrums from male fans
Especially if the female characters in question. There's a female character right there. She's right
He know he must know that he's reloading the glock you idiot
I don't must account for that. It must be a part of his point
There's no way you could miss black widow's existence conventionally attractive. Oh, wait. Wait, whoa
Don't tell me
I need to reset a bit. You can't possibly say the words conventionally attractive. That's offensive, isn't it?
Yeah, because you can't call ugly chicks ugly don't see these same kind of extended temper tantrums from male fans
Especially if the female characters in question are cast as young white and conventionally attractive. Oh, wow
Oh, we don't care because they're hot and white. Oh gosh, dude
how do people not like just choke on watching these videos like
But it's first it's the temper tantrums
He just said the rose isn't attractive conventionally. He just said by saying that she's asian
And I guess I guess in some universe white people white men don't find asian women attractive
Like the people who watch these videos. How are these not incredibly offensive?
Because like you know, like I said, I can get over it because it's just it's fucking we get this shit every day from other content creators
But like listening to this I should be like, oh what a fucking idiot
Yeah, the normal people like the normal people who watch this video
You're like he's talking about you
He's saying you have no problem with black widow in marvel because she's conventionally attractive and white if she was asian you would hate it
We just remember right before this they show a hot white chick
You guys remember in rogue one the two asian characters in the team in rogue one
You know rogue one was loved by the majority of star wars people when it came out same for force awakens
I'm, not denying that. Um, there was the there was two asian people in there
In their team there was i'm pretty sure there was a bunch of um actors of color as i'm supposed to refer to them
Yeah, the asian guys. He was what was he was he like simone or something?
I'm, not sure but the what all i'm trying to say is that they exist existed in that film and
No, we had a problem. No one cared. No one had a problem. No had a problem with lando
No had a problem with um, what's his face in terminator 2 the the cei I mean it's just
Also, the idea on the shit out of his ass the idea is like there's nothing to say about black widow's character writing versus rose tikos
There's just nothing to say. They're both the same. It's more about who they were casta. It's about
It's about their race and their gender. That's the important part. That's the part we need to focus on people
It's it's so backwards these videos never make any sense to me civil war for starters
insulted
Black widow is a character. She's not actually
One-dimensional or anything. She's got a bunch of like an insult to every good female care
So he won't he won't consider you if you're white it's really fucked up
Like he's really upset. She's white and hot
The last jedi isn't satisfied with simply
It goes much further
And puts female characters in positions of institutional power
We were fine with that lea was out overpowering luke anhan in the originals. She outranked them
She was a princess slash general
And that's okay. That was fine
We don't have a problem with that. It's okay
aliens
She is a monarch old ruler
Or moral authority over male heroes
The
Movie then has those women leverage that power to challenge and ultimately force change in men's behavior
No, that was yoda
Yeah, that was yoda. Sorry. That was that was that is almost unheard of in a major block. Yeah aliens
ding ding ding aliens aliens aliens
Aliens 30 years ago aliens did it
Well, you just need to see more films macintosh you apparently have only seen the last jedi and maybe one of the film. I don't know
Tron and the titanic they're the three films you see
Someone's pointing out apparently ray's not white and attractive
Oh, yeah
so I I don't understand why black widow is
in ray aren't
And then before that before he even points out the black widow thing. It's that chick from
Jurassic world like she's white and attractive
He's just described nagging you can't say that
Aliens are on the ot. Yeah, just aliens aliens aliens this he needs to see aliens
Yeah, what about mad max?
charlie's there and super hot
That doesn't count
Anything that goes against the narrative doesn't count in the end are three male heroes face up to their mistakes and overcome their failures
Do learns from leah and holdo to put aside his desire for heroic short-term gains. Let's go
No, wait, wait and instead consider the but that's what he did the first time at the beginning of the movie
That's why they got to this point in the film because he did that not to mention by the way
If you'd cut out the entire film and told us the scenario is you're inside this building the entire first order outside
And luke is going to go face them and then you played the scene
I could have believed it because I'd just be like yeah poe didn't
It's not out of character for poe to decide we should escape instead of fight them when there's 20 of us
Yeah, live to fight another day. That is a completely normal thing to say and do
Yeah
That doesn't break through rose's moral insights that fin comes to believe in something bigger than himself
He already believed in something bigger than himself when he tried to kill himself for the resistance you idiot
You've already admitted that and even at the beginning of the film when he goes to try and save ray, that's bigger than himself
That's somebody else. Oh, that's a selfless act. Let's hear him. Fuck up luke's
Well, it's an inspiring luke to be the best version of himself again. No, that's yoda. That's yoda
No, no you you mac
Watch the wrong film
We see it through his eyes and when yoda when yoda is like the best teacher failure is he just sees ray
It's just ray the whole time. Yeah
I don't know why ray's talking funny, but why is ray green this weird?
Ray, why did you get so short?
The catchphrase of this episode is you would have did that
Because the thing is too that ray summoning lightning from the sky wouldn't really be out of character for her power level
No, she could do that. Yeah, and ultimately to do the exact thing. He mocked her for earlier in the film
Luke does indeed end up walking out with a laser sword and facing down the whole first order
That's not all of them
There's probably some left in the ship that they came from assuming that's a thing
But you got to get these things right macintosh
Oh, that's terrible
Despite what the reactionary conspiracy theorists claim this despite what the reactionary conspiracy theorists claim
That's a line in the just label them label
Label and dismiss label and this is not an agenda of masculine inferiority. You've just described
Masculine inferiority throughout this whole fucking video
Apart from yoda of course because yoda did it. Yeah, that's what we brought up earlier
Is that this this is a conspiracy, but i'm gonna make a whole video on why it's true and he explains that
It's a male fantasy
To be obsessed with sacrificing yourself the greater good and you get taught that that's toxic or not the right way
And then he says this is not about deconstructing, you know male fantasy shit. It's just like didn't I thought that was your point
It's like they want to remove
Everything that makes anything good
Kill it. Anything is just
Jesus
What a terrible fucking video women in the last jedi hold their male counterparts accountable
Not out of an amount of face
I know it's such a string. It's such an art thing. They're like, how cool does that look that looks sci-fi and it's like what?
Why is okay? Why is she covered up like that? But because they genuinely care about no, they don't she got a lot of people killed
Hold them got an insane amount of people killed for no reason
I don't know at best. It's for no reason at worst. It's because she was doing all the things that she accused poe of doing
I like it
Me too
Yeah, that should have been cut because it just it makes everything even more confusing
Oh gosh, this justifies the deaths of all these people because I like poe
Okay, okay, though the people who died probably don't feel that way general
Male heroes are not being diminished or erased in this
In fact a lot of time and effort is devoted to giving men transformative arcs what what well
We've already gone through exactly why that's just not true on all three counts. So yeah
The last jedi is a story about men learning to trust women's ideas and
No
Trusting women's ideas. What what is holdo's idea?
Literally nothing your idea is just don't tell them anything and then they will learn
Remember how yoda struggled to move one of these boulders and she's just like oh, yeah
I'm just gonna move the fucking mountainside. I always love I hope he shows it her expression when she's doing it
She looks so like this is annoying
Decisions and then becoming better people and better heroes because of it. She's just like
Come on and while that might be an unexpected message for a star war story
It's a vital lesson. That's easy man. That is a lot of boulders is matt aware
Sane amount of power. Yeah, we need to contact mundane matt and get him on this
This is some top boulder quality shit here. I think he'd like this film
She might not even achieve so easy
That was the clue by the way that he was going to turn on the star wars fandom
That was about right there because remember monday matt shout on this film
But then he was like defending it when uh, or he's defending against the anger in the uh
The star wars community once they'd announced that luke was coming back or something again
There are there's somehow 2,300 people are watching this catastrophe if any of you
Have that that that monday matt video
Send it to one of us
Please send it to one of us email it to us or or send it to us on our discords or something. Just come on
Please I want it so much. I wanted matt
Matt if you're watching this video and you're look and you're looking at this part right now
Keep it in the pants, buddy
Oh, awesome matt. Fuck you you piece of shit
Gender is also fuck you also stop buying subscribers. Did you just say gender equality?
Oh, man, he's getting all that might be an unexpected message for star wars. He is matt
It's a vital lesson that men need to learn if we are to achieve gender equality
Lesson men need to learn to achieve gender equality
Okay, let's be honest mackintosh
It would be bad for you if we achieved gender equality because there'd be nothing for you to fucking talk about anymore
He'd find some way
Well, there's nothing to talk about here. He just no
I'm pretty much implying if it was like that from his perspective his career would be over. So of course, he doesn't want that
Yeah
But his career is basically making shit up. So yeah, thanks for watching
These video essays take a redo. I love how soft he's being
Thanks for watching
Look at the way he's doing it
What's his voice always this retarded sounding?
I mean i'm being honest here. It reminds me of just right the way that just right speaks
It's uh, it's the soft essay voice. This is seriously a thing loads of essays do it
It's basically it's a different screen. It's a difference between me talking like this
And the difference between me talking like this
That's the essay voiced
You're thinking this whole video was terrible. It was full of things that were just completely wrong
And he contradicts himself multiple times. It doesn't make any sense. It was awful. This was a terrible video
It was no merit whatsoever. Was it worse than the plot holes one?
Oh, that's tough. That is tough
I'd say the plot holes one because
That wasn't
Yeah, because the plot holes one is um general assessment of film
So it's much much more damage if you were to actually say it was influential. This is just for one movie
It was like but yeah, i'd still say the plot holes one. Yeah, this is more this is more condensed autism
Not to mention this is also jonathan mackintosh and it's just kind of
Expected that he's retarded. Yeah, he's got a reputation
He's gained some weight
Man, he just talked about how conventionally attractive people unattractive people get hated on look at you
Hating on him because he's yeah, he's not he's not conventionally or
unconventionally attractive
He is neither
We got through it according to me it took about two hours and 20 minutes to cover a 20 minute video
We added two hours onto it
It was it was such a it was such high density wrongness
How are we doing for both of you guys? How much time do you reckon you both got left?
Yeah, we can do another yeah
We're gonna take a break with jared and then go back to a different essay to add to the lore
But I was gonna say i'll read out some of these um
Super chats as I've let them stack up a little bit. Uh
I remember where I was. Oh there. I think that was it. Yeah, what solo movies would you actually watch?
So i'm assuming they're talking about anthology films. Like what ones would you be interested in?
You guys got any ideas or
Sorry, sorry. Sorry what so like, you know how they've got a movie for han solo a movie for potentially boba fair movie for obi
One what ones would you want to see?
I would want to see the boba fat one because it would be hard to fuck up
All they have to do they're pretty good at fucking shit up. They are good. I'm not it's not I won't put it past them
But all they have to do is just make just a fucking john wick style just he goes around and is a badass
That's all they have to do and people will love it. I think my answer would be
I would accept
I would accept a solo movie about literally anything or one in the universe if it was just a really awesome film
That's what I won
I don't really care
If it's about x y z if it was a guarantee of a good film and I get to choose
The character I probably would go with something like well, maybe darth maul. Maybe obi won
Maybe both of them put them into a movie where they have to resolve
Something because he's obviously still alive in canon now, but yeah, i'm just looking for a good film
It doesn't have to be determined because you know, you could be like let's have an x person film and then it's awful. So it's like, uh
Dexter's diner is star wars story. I mean who wouldn't watch that?
Uh rose is only there to appeal to the asian demographic. Um, that didn't work if that was the case
Yeah, the chinese stated, uh, they did not see this movie
They uh, they did not watch this film and then they watched solo even less
The watch transformers, but they won't watch this
Exactly. Because they will watch because mcderpington donated a five dollar cent
If I crash the speeder on purpose, is it still an accident?
Yes, but no, but I don't know it's it's it's complicated we have to get like a ruling on that from somebody
Uh luke thinking of killing kyla doesn't bother me nearly as much as his total abandonment of everything to the freaking sith lord
Well, yeah, that's that's a big issue
I have is the fact that uh, no matter what's going on with luke
It doesn't fucking matter because the sith lords are currently destroying the universe or you know
Killing everybody and it's like yeah, the jedi in some ways are just as bad as the sith
Like shut the fuck up, dude. You need to go and like stop them
Please they're just like no they you know in some ways
The jedi caused the sith which funnily enough if he actually defeated all of the sith and then dissolved the jedi
I could see that being
Somewhat reasonable
But um, not while the sith are running around you kind of need a bit of help with that one
This is like the chekhov's gun trope
The fact that nobody shows doubt finn's attack would work is proof that it would work in script writing logic
Um, they tell us it would work and then he says don't do it because you're gonna die to be able to pull it off
And so that was telling the audience
But now they can't even do it in a way that would uh prevent their deaths
But uh, they will still do it and that's why we thought it was a sacrifice and then she does the thing and we're like, oh
um
My headcanon is that kylo is controlling
Is is controlling rose atat pilot says sir. Should I shoot them and he says no, this is gonna be hilarious
I mean, how could it not be hilarious to literally?
watch
Thin drag rose's body across that entire field. I imagine all of the 80 80s were laughing their asses off watching that
Very just eating popcorn. Like let's see if you're drunk
He's gonna get tired, right? I would be tired by now
Uh movie is so bad. Uh, ryan johnson didn't bother to direct the at walkers. So
Are you meant to shoot down mr. Johnson? No, this is rose's big moment. Well, that would be direction though, wouldn't it?
He totally directed them. Um
You guys hear about boogie 2988 being dogpiled on by the sjw's for criticizing riot games for excluding men from a panel
I've heard about that. I saw it
Yeah, apparently the league of legends the the league community was very upset with the packs thing as well
In fact, basically everybody that i've ever seen
Has been uh really upset with how um, how they how they handled that
Because there's there's like a thread, isn't there where they're like, we're not excluding men
We're simply offering um a platform for the demographics of our community that are often marginalized or something like that
And then like so you're excluding men, but they literally said
They excluded men
Yeah, and they they got the thing where they're like women are allowed and people who identify as female as well
And I was just like, oh is this one of those loophole moments where I could turn up and be like
Yeah, I identify as female and they're like
You do and i'm like i'm the amazing bearded lady
It's offensive to deny me and they're like, okay
Unconventionally beautiful. Oh
That's
Perfect, right?
You could actually say it
Uh, did you ever check out movie bob's views on the movie? Absolutely insufferable. I did and it's exactly what I expected
Gandalf tricked his party to leave so he can hoggle the xp from the balrog kill
I agree
It's so evolved
He did say swords, uh are no more use here and then he killed the balrog
They like that's the first thing they asked him they were like, did you actually hog the xp and he's like no
What do you mean?
I mean, I don't know man leveled up you leveled up pretty far. You seem really powerful now and he's like
That's just um, and they look they open his character sheet. He's put loads of points. I just I just respect what i've got
I am
I didn't actually get that's what he was like, you know, I don't really remember what even happened. Who are you guys again?
I think this is an older profile where I was at a higher ring
I brought it in because my new profile got killed thanks to you guys. They're like, oh, okay. Okay
Uh luke thinking oh wait, sorry, uh in episode nine l3 kills off life support to rose for not being robotic enough
That could happen. I
Rose isn't the right kind of feminist i'm
I'm concerned that they're going to bring back l3 in episode nine
Because of the fact that she's in the falcon like you'll hear her voice and he'll be like, oh no
Didn't they like just recently start filming? So it's totally possible that that's the case. Yep. Yep double. Yep
Wonderful. If you don't believe in gender roles in the end
It doesn't matter if the character is basically a man because anyone could be anything anyway
That's about that confuses me, you know about their their position on gender roles
Isn't the whole point that they they have do they have to put the beginning like?
Typical gender roles or expected gender roles because they they don't want to promote the idea of gender roles, right?
They they basically if they could they would remove gender
Yeah, but they like they would they they wouldn't have it be a thing
They're trying to remove the the the gap between the differences that are genders. It's very confusing
Um, how many fans are black women?
Do we have to find who dislike the movie to disprove his point about angry white male fans?
It doesn't matter. It'll never matter
It's just nonsense data to these people
It doesn't matter. It's funny because um, that's something that me and wolf
uh
Got to talk about with um jeff on wheel class bullshit because he was like he gets that criticism a lot and he's not white
Neither um, he's got a panelist that's black who often criticizes obviously when we criticize the film with fringy as well
And it's just like these things don't matter to them. We're all white to them because
it's like
now if you're white is like a bad thing which is uh
It's like they're trying to convert the word white into the same meaning as like idiot or asshole
Yeah, bad is that being white is a pejorative?
It's like you're like shut the fuck up white and you're like what?
so, um
Uh, yeah, yeah, uh superchance. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah picking on scarlet joe hansen. That's all it says
This is a donation. I think he donated out of agar of the picky on scarlet joe hansen. That must have been it
How dare they everyone hates playing as ryu and chun li
Oh
Yeah, it that's a street fight. There was a street fighter characters. Oh, I know the street fighter characters, but like what is um in action
They're white. Oh good point
Although it was the worst character in star wars
She's never heard of a commander's intent a chain of command she has information to reduce chances of mistakes like the one gender studies pulled
Thank you all again for ripping this video apart. This was therapy to me. Keep up the good work
Oh, may the schwartz be with you. Well, thank you. And yeah, we got a shit ton of requests to cover this one
Which is why we knew we had to open with it because it was like everyone's
Wanted it because they were tagging us in this video for like two weeks
It's awful. I can see why it's fucking terrible
Love the unbridled reviews. Please help. I've watched the last jedi critique seven times
Yeah, I mean
That's like years
Yeah, that's I think two years exactly. So good job
Uh, the obi-wan movie has proven actor and potential movie plot in obi-wan learning to become one with the force and protecting luke
Again, it could be terrible. You just got to get the right like what if they told you that ryan johnson was directing and writing
Then you fucked
He would he would make obi-wan. He would his only goal is to make something that you don't expect. So
You're basing an interest on expectations
I will say that jonathan mackintosh did not subvert my expectation
This was this was exactly as fucking stupid as I thought it would be
As is customary, uh good question for mackintosh. Why was holdo's suicide. Okay, but finn's wasn't
Because she's a woman like literally how could he possibly reconcile that?
That is a good question, but I think it's because she's a woman and so the gender dynamics are different or something
Either way, that is the end of me reading the super chat, which means I think it's which means we get to ask
What do you guys feel about uh caval being?
The girl's bad
No wolf's not happy about that
I am on the fence. I I am absolutely
um
Under the camp that it should have been nick lodge costa williams
No, man. Kevin sorbo
Why would you pick fucking kevin sorbo?
Hercules he's also the fucking retarded christian or atheist guy from god's not dead
Yeah, but he's hercules. Yeah, well he's also like fucking retarded looking so no
He's unconventionally attractive, okay. Yeah, no, he's unconventionally retarded is what he is
Mads michaelson that could be a good one. Mads michaelson would be pretty good
I okay. Henry cavil. I'm I'm
I'll give I I I don't think he could be good. I mean i've he just doesn't look
I mean for me
It's like if you don't look the part and you don't sound the part
Then i'm not really going to support you bleeding the part
Now it's better than what I previously thought it was because there was audition tapes that were released and the guy who played. Uh
Bucky from uh
Captain america was going to be it and I was like this is
I you may as well cast a black guy because it would be more accurate
Um, but that's something that they heard some people saying that they should do
Well, i'm not surprised that didn't happen to be i'm surprised that didn't happen because
You know, that's that would just fit in with everything else that's going on
I mean, yeah, I I don't like the fact that it's henry cavil
It he seems like a terrible casting choice. I understand
But I am pretty much on rags's team of like we'll have to see what they do and obviously I won't have a reference
but
I mean honestly, I already think they're gonna fuck it up. Anyway
So here look at him from look at him here in that picture from uh, mission impossible
Like he could he could be grilled
I've seen like some like really shitty photo shops of him where he's actually got like a geralt beard and hair. Um
Um
Maybe I would have the voice is gonna be a big thing because if he doesn't nail the geralt voice and it's gonna be
It's not gonna be good. I I felt bad that we kept showing him mackintosh's face. So i've changed it
Yeah
We're talking about a real man now
Um peak masculinity
It's gonna be hard for because if they if they don't cast
Yen and dandelion and everyone else right either it's it's gonna be fucked up
Especially yen that's gonna be a big part of it
Siri was a kid in the books
So we will expect a wolf I have to find like a dishonor wolf video coming out as soon as that series is released
I think oh, yeah stay with lord of the rings and the wheel of time once all those shows come out. I'm definitely gonna be
Looking at them. I gotta get through more of the wheel of time books
I only read the first one but to make you feel better wolf
Make you feel better. Do you want to check out our lord and savior's latest update about having friends? Yes, let's let's
The writers for the witcher
Are apparently super sjw too. So that's great. Yeah, that's that's why I don't think it's gonna be a good show
Oh, yeah at this point at this point. I I don't expect it to be good fish tags back
fish tank
Oh, it is yeah, I don't even want to try and guess what that thing on his bed is in front of it
But just well, yeah, I mean you've got the drum set you've got the arm and hammer do right in its place
Right where it always is the ninja turtles thing on the dresser. It's all
All's right with the world
All right, let's hear some some neat advice
That's just everyone
How's it going guys it's gerry genesis, so I think that this is an important thing to cover because
I feel like a lot of people. Okay. Now that's quiet. I've got it on the maximum for that. No
You got to do the volume thingy. Yeah, I have
They're both at full and it's still pretty quiet
Yeah, it's real. Well adjust the uh, adjust the slider on the video itself. Yeah
Really geez because it's really loud for me
Did you try it's not really loud but it's fairly loud
Did you try to click in the the audio thingy in the corner?
Tomorrow it's red
Well, yeah, I clicked it and and I just went for the one that was loudest anyway because sometimes it screws up
But it is actually red this time around
So quiet Jared, why do you do this to me? Why should don't deny us the sound of your voice?
He wants us to listen
How's it going guys
I think that this is an important thing to cover because
I feel like a lot of people may struggle with this
People who may not want to admit it
But I think this is a problem
So called problem for a lot of people
So called problem. I just want to say right now that like I don't really have any
Friends
Oh
Also, yeah, I'll be your friend
The stream in general has been really low
Yeah, I don't know how to fix it
Everything is highest on my end even even the people aside from me. Obviously I've lowered myself significantly, but I don't know how to
Make everyone louder system side instead of like browser side because like I said, everything's on maximum
So it's just really strange. But uh, it's like I need every person who's viewing the stream to install
the um
The thing on the browser
It's like if you guys will do that, it'll be fine
Yeah, I don't know if it's loud enough, but it seems like it seems like everybody's responding to it
So it looks like they must be able to hear it
Everyone's like maxed volume for this. Yep
Dude talk to a lot of people
Um some people that I have known for a while. I just don't talk too frequent. My mom my dad
My dad plays his drums still. Yep, that's true. Well, please he he hits the drums
That's true. It's he doesn't exactly play him. He doesn't play him he hits
While Jared shows his like hanging stomach
Yeah
Uh to me a friend is someone I guess
But the world's definition of a friend is something the world's
What's that as opposed to mine does he mean the dictionary the world's definition we need some sad music to go along with this
Yeah, someone who you talk to on a frequent basis
You know, maybe someone that you see in real life
Uh comes over to your house and hangs out and you I don't know watch tv and drink beer
Um, that to me, I guess is what a friend is
But the truth of the
The fuck is that?
Were you trying to do sad music?
The matter is if you think about it friends come and go
Most people don't have the same friends their entire life
so in reality
Those people, you know were once friends
But no longer now. They're just strangers again
He's not wrong
Yeah, he he's right. Yeah, you you you meet new people and you you lose and gain
People that are close to you
You know your entire life because you're alive for a long time
Oh and and there's some people in the chat. There's a lot of people who are just on board with Jared
There's so many people just like what the fuck is this?
You just don't know Jared
So far, I mean like minute for a minute Jared is doing better than jonathan mackintosh's with far smaller of a budget
I might say yeah, definitely he's got such a small budget that he can't even afford a fucking shirt
Yeah
You had to eat my shirt. You spent the money on ninja turtles. Shut up
Humans that's a toxic masculinity. Those are the turtles
We have a way of
Labeling people certain things. Yeah, jonathan. Yeah, we're going around labeling people. Jared is calling jonathan out in this video
Jared Jared
They're not permanent labels. They eventually just become erased and become something else
I don't really think
As humans were meant to have
friends
A little off and then and then we finally get to the jared take on it where we're like, oh
Interjared stays left
Humans would never
Humans were meant to have friends like maybe from your perspective. I can see why you think that
But maybe I think that if you look deep into it, um
If you want to call it zen Buddhism or whatever
We're all sort of interconnected and very
Mysterious
We're all interconnected
For like three seconds the way he came up with was mysterious
Not wrong
He moves in mysterious ways. Yeah, it's just it works in mysterious ways
That's all the justification you need right the whole world the universe is sort of interconnected
and I think that to call someone a friend is kind of silly when it boils down to it because
We all share a connection I believe that we're all related from adam and eve
That's just a christian. Whoa, is he oh easy christian?
Well, I guess he is. Oh, yeah zen buddhist or is he a christian or is he like both like you take well
All religions cherry picking so maybe it's just
I don't remember
So I don't remember what video it was
But I do know he said that he was like doing his job as a christian by saying whatever retarded shit
He was talking about. Yeah, I did not know that I had it to the law
But I guess but I guess yeah, I guess if you believe adam and eve for real, we're all related from them
So, I mean so technically we're related to fucking charrett. Yeah, boy
I mean are you not on board with that? I am on board with that. I'm brother jared brother
brother jared
hpr
I mean as humans
We're all the same king of the silly putty. We should still be united
Um, and you don't need friends
to be united
Uh to me
The perfect human is you is just I guess
Okay, um, i'm not following it at all. I'm not really I guess we're all united but we don't need friends because of that
I assume there's a perfect human everyone's like a friend
So it's like calling them friends isn't even really it doesn't have like any meaning anymore
You know everyone super so no one is I guess is what he's going for
So if we are he wants us all to be interconnected. So is jared a globalist then
Looks like I mean on a spiritual level. Yeah, he's a spiritual globalist
In a mysterious way he's a spiritual globalist, you know, he's in buddhism, you know the fucking pause screen you have in that mauler
Just like stared at the screen. That's the moment where he becomes self-aware and he sees what we're doing
He's like wait a minute
You on this planet
What I mean someone who is
A social person because humans weren't meant to be
Antisocial, you know who weren't meant to have friends who even being introverted
We weren't meant to be out anti-social despite being like tribalistic as fuck but
I mean we we're meant to be social we're social animals, but a even social animals have tribes
Well, we got to put this through the lens of jared response theory where he doesn't believe his room
I'm still really curious. What was the thing in front of the fish tank is
His tribe is on his dresser. I think that's one of the symbols for his drum
Really looks very high. It could be it could be because it's reflecting and it's all circular. So
But it's like it's really the only thing I can think of overlish, you know
yeah, it might be it might just be
it might be a
Just upside or maybe we're looking at it from the top
And I mean his bed's not exactly a bed. So
It's a collection of materials
It's a table until he's on it and then it's a bed
I've heard it really
but
That's not to say I I think that you should be overly social. I think there's a time and place where alone time is good
I like my alone time
Me and my thoughts in my room interrupting
Discussion of the perfect human being I've loved this
Oh, i'm soaking it all in it's just a kind of a friend to everyone
Human is a friend to everyone
Certain friends friends, but of course you do have you know family
and you know
Boyfriend girlfriend husband wife
In those relationships, I guess are different in a way pause it
Yeah, if if you really think about it, your husband is a little bit different than a girlfriend
Someone who lives, you know a thousand miles away in another country you never met
There's a little bit of a difference if you think about it rags. I don't know if you noticed someone posted
someone sent me a
Screenshot that they took when they were commenting on one of jared's videos. I don't know which one it is
but he
Admitted jared admitted to being what he calls himself a bit of a queer
Yeah, I have no but I don't have no idea what that means. I'd have to see that through the through the jared
I didn't have the jared response theory jared's lens to understand that I would yeah who knows what he means by that
So is he like kind of gay or it might not have anything to do with that. That's the thing. Do we consider?
Comments from his youtube channels. We consider that low accurate. Does it have to be in a video?
I mean, it's like it's like a religious text. It can be interpreted in many ways to the point where it's practically useless
So we're gonna have to see I don't know we'd have to get a follow-up on that someone have to ask
What do you mean? Yeah, if you can just leave a comment on his channel, he'll probably make a video about it
What does he mean by being created make a video?
Just ask him if he would suck meat tubes
Yeah, you probably think of like hot dogs
in his
Well, that's the thing because otherwise he'll just delete the comment
It's the expanded jared if it's a comment
We have to frame it correctly so that he'll just be like, oh, yeah, I saw hot dogs jerry reloaded
You think about it
but then again
Those labels a lot of times to just come and go too
Now you could debate that, you know, well, what about best friends and
You could have somewhat of a debate there, but really to me a friend is just a friend
Best friend almost seems kind of like a shallow thing to do because it's like you're playing favorites. Well, yep
I do have favorite friends. Yeah
normal
Know what friends are they're humans that you favor over the humans
Basically, yeah and of those
Since all humans are uh, you know in equal in that aspect and they're different
You will prefer or have a special connection to one like some like some people even say like my spouse is my best friend
You know something like that or friend is just all my friends
I know but if I need to
Like if it's three in the morning and my car breaks down at a bad part of town, you know, I can call carl
And he's you know, he's my best friend. He will be there to help me out. Doesn't matter what it is
You know, like we got each other's backs more than anybody else I can count on him the most
Yeah, because he probably feels the same way
Oh, yeah. Yeah, um
It's what a strange lens. This is you'll look at you being viewed from this is almost like, uh
Not not fatalist but cynical
Yeah, kind of a cynical for Jared he's usually much more hopeful
yeah of your friends and
Um to me like I never really had a best friend
Growing up as a kid. I mostly just had like one or two friends, you know
And so I guess they were okay just best friends because I never had I want to give him a hug
But I don't think my arms will fit around his fat. Well, he looks sweaty. So I don't know
Yeah, you don't know what kind of chemicals are on there, man. Come on
well
I can always give myself like an acid bath. He probably he probably smells like his bed. Oh
well
He has to clear that out to sleep on every night and then pull the stuff back on like it's a cupboard
Yeah, that's true. That's like what I said, it's a table until he's on it then it's a bed
See that's a video he could make as well. Does Jared think traps are gay?
Oh, man, maybe maybe we can like put him through like y'all need to ask Jared if he thinks traps are gay
Make a video on it
Yeah, we can put him through like quarantine. We move like hose him down before we hug him
What if he just sleeps on the fish tank like he just drapes he's all over it the fish tank is the pillow
What what if his body's like he doesn't actually have bones he just like
He's like a liquid he just goes into the fish tank
He just morphs around it it's his hibernation cube, yeah
with a red bucket
Oh the red bucket is when it spills over and he puts he puts the lid on it after he gets inside
Jared is a xenoball for the perfect creature
And then like his parents come in to wake him up and they take the lid off and it's like Jared's face sitting in
like a pool of himself
He just opens his eyes like I am ready and they just like tip over the bin and he like flops out and like
They don't say get out of bed. They're like pour out a bed
Both of his parents need to do it because he's just weighs too much when I was in my early teens
There were a lot of kids on my block
Who you know, they all rode bikes are skated
And we would hang out but none of us were really that close
Um, but we would just sometimes go to each other's houses or do some bullshit
And that's just kind of how it was
And it's funny to me how adults are the same way, you know, they just sort of hang out
Uh, they don't they don't really have like, you know
Intimate
Wait, what did he just talk about husbands wives, girlfriends and boyfriends?
Relations and I don't mean sex. Okay. I don't just mean that
well
Yeah, because some of us do but I mean it can go I mean intimacy is
Obviously, it's it's not just you know, physical is he saying there's not much intimate relationships with people outside of sexual ones
Maybe people aren't very close outside of that being on that level with a lot of people. That's yeah
Yeah, that's saved for literally best friends
One guy said uh intimate gay friendship
Intimate gay friendship. I like the scp joke. He's like in sc. So it basically
Top gun
And yeah patrick's right. Uh, the the jared videos have better will building than the last jedi by far
Yeah, they take care of a lot in just one or two scenes in the lot in in the jedi jared videos
I like these long takes, you know. Yeah. Yeah, it's very personal. You feel it like you're in the room
Yeah, like you like he's talking to you to each person individually. I mean like there's there's no like sort of
Um
Emotion or anything like that. That's just how I see it to me as a friend is just
For most people it seems like a friend is just someone you go to their house and you drink beer to pass time
He said that was the thing that you do with friends
Yeah
Maybe he's saying that that's what the world thinks a friend is
Hmm
Maybe that's just how I see it
But when you really look into it, like I said with the zen buddhist philosophy
Zen buddhist philosophy, I thought
Like you're christian. What do you think a religion do?
You know who you know who else was zen buddhist?
kamikaze pilots
Those didn't ever exist fin was the first ever person to ever consider that
yeah, and then
And then rose kamikaze herself into his kamikaze and it um kamikaze
It's a counter kamikaze
Kamikaze that cultural appropriation
And how we're all interconnected and how we all just sort of feed off each other's energy
We're all just floating energy
Oh my god, he got so philosophical is such a quick like
Thoughts on having friends we're all just
Just kind of i'm kind of expecting his head to like sink into his torso and then
You just want him to be in the fish tank, don't you?
It might have it might happen because of how heavy his head is because of that fucking big ass brain in there
Oh, yeah, I don't know how he's he's thinking about all this stuff
Wrong to hold that up and we feed off each other's energy whether it's with humans
With animals with trees. We all just sort of feed off each other's energy
Uh, that's a real friendship. I feel like he's sort of said it best where like rags. Can I feed off of your energy tonight?
Yeah, boy
I'm gonna skip that. It sounds it sounds wisdom. We can all feed off each other's energy tonight. Come on
It's natural. It's natural. This is what nature intended in the name of jared. Perhaps
Let's let us worship jared together
It's in praise to jared
He's sort of said it best where like
The human doesn't really exist. It's it's mostly just
The inner parts, you know
The inner parts say jared
I can just picture with a circle of people that are like picking or looking at daisies
They're all just like someone's bagging a drum and he's just like we're all just like the inner us
you know
Yeah bad
I don't I don't know about
humans not existing
because
There seems to be a lot of evidence in the affirmative that they do
Like it's all just insights is he saying that like humanity is a social construct or that it's not really real
We just made it up. We categorize for no reason because we're all just carbon dude. We're all just things
We all connect
Just dust in the wind man tears in the rain
sometimes the soul I guess
things of that nature
But as far as this here
In a sense, this doesn't really exist
So is this just like an illusion
Is jared really here if we had a newsletter for jared that today's would have been like jared reveals that nothing exists
What if jared like what if he's projecting into this room like luke skywalker he's actually like a supremely handsome well-off guy
And he's just projecting we ask him why he's like I chose someone unconventionally attracted
This is more so just a facade
It's the inside, you know, there's an old saying that like your lungs the things that cannot be seen
Are actually the most real
They're the most tangible
So I don't know about that I don't know about that
The things that I can yeah because they have the most substance in death
What do you have so much depth jared?
That's he does
Fucking real the things that we can't see are the most real and they have the most substance and depth
He got very deep on us in this episode. Wait a minute. Did he just rip off a fucking polar express quote?
Some of the most real things in the world are the things you can't see
This inquisition drops you by jared
He ripped off polar express
The thing is that would be a great nickname for him is polar express
That's his rap name
polar express
in my camera is just
Skin flesh
And vibrations coming out of my throat. Well, you don't see that but you hear yeah
So you don't really see the inner parts of what really make me who I yeah
It's because your skin's in the way, you know what he's right
He's just right and you guys are just hating
Yeah
anyways guys just
Oh boy enlighten you and i'll see you guys namaste
Well, we got so god we gotta do one more because this is a this is a quick one. It's it's a requested piece of
Wait, wait, where's this light switch is it right up there? Oh, yeah god, the light switches must be above it
I I hope it's there. But yeah, we've we requested a room
Disappeared. Oh, there it is. We requested a room tour and he provided an in-depth room tour
That's okay. So still no still no cover on the light pregnancy video
Oh my goodness, that is that's some damage has been dealt to that door i'm telling you it's it's your hand
It's the hand that is every that is a gnarly hand, dude
By the look by the switch you even see the hand print by the switch
It looks like the fucking wood is rotting
Because you know when you flick a light switch, you know
Your fingers will extend past the actual button you'll get that, you know in the middle of your hand
So that's the fingers that brown spot on the top. Does everything he touches die or does he sap the light?
Is
Terrifying whenever you arrive what's that supposed to be? I don't know
It's just got a little white guy I guess it's all there he is I could see him
What's wrong?
I don't know. I don't what a strange
What a strange figurine. Is that an amiibo?
No, that's
That looks like a really old figure like oh my god. Are we gonna see the inside of his closet like a happy meal?
But he's really letting us see that one god. Oh, that's shredder. That's a shredder toy. You can tell by the help
Yeah, he's got a shredder toy. I just realized he had a pair of fucking
Um pliers
Fuck what you call it?
Well, yeah, let me back back it up. It was right. It was right in front of the little white guy
That's maybe we'll see in a second. Oh
Yeah
All right. We got the name is we've got e-bop and road kill. Why is his cover?
Dresser drawn out from the wall. Like it's not like to the wall
I don't know. Maybe it's like a gap. Let me just go back a second
Yeah, because there's like a decent chunk of gap that maybe has a bunch of stuff on the floor
You don't know maybe there's an outlet. Maybe there's an outlet back there. That could be it. Yeah
He realizes ninja tails man, he's got fucking deodorant and hand sanitizer
Yeah, well it looks like though you're at the colon that's like cologne he studies the detects what they do
Oh
That floor man just so there's a skateboard on that there's like two skateboards on the left
Is there a crowbar? I can't quite tell what that is
He's got a fucking crowbar in his room, that's awesome
Oh god, he can't trash can he can't get to the areas that he would show because of the floor
There's no way he could get to him. Why does he just have unopened fedex boxes in his room?
Because castaways his favorite movie
Those are like dr. Seuss books man
Actually has like done a two videos on his book collection and they're all fucking dr. Seuss books. Yeah
Because this is like serial killer wool
So, what do we got skating ninja wolverine there's wolverine up there, yeah
um
You just skateboard do you know like how like you can walk into some rooms
They're just like pristine clean and they just everything's off. So you can't even tell but like this room tells you everything about him
He's an open book ready to be read you could create a character in a book based solely on the stuff in this room
You could just be like, uh, yep. So clearly he does x y and z like this is
This is beautiful
So
So much stuff small combat
Mortal kong wait, did he did he actually cut that out of like a game case and stick it on?
I think so. Yeah, because look at how it's cut out. Look how crude the
Look in the in the bottom left corner. You can see the place where the rated m logos be
Yeah, and I think that's a price tag as well on the bottom
Yeah
Just fucking cut out the case
You didn't even cut it out like
Could you have cut it like a square or a circle? Did you have to?
He's just like yeah, that's good enough and he uses a thumbtacks because these are all with thumbtacks by the way
He's got he's got thumbtacks pressed up for a lot of these
incredible stuff
Whoa
I see he's a satan worshipper. Yeah
This is this just I don't even want to call them contradictions
They are literally just insights or these things are just insights
We've got I think the wall gets progressively more terrifying as you move across it you get
Middle gear solid
Weird duck things we're watching a creepy pasta right now
You can hear him stepping over all the shit in his room
Yeah a couple metal gear salad things
Look at what the fuck that thing is in the top right. Oh, that's I i've seen it before I can't remember what it's from
Someone in jasmine. Oh, it's the um, it's the it's feng shui guy. Uh master shifu
From kung fu panda in the top left and that that's earthworm. Jim as well
Yeah earthworm. Jim. We got the the magic the gathering mana
down at the bottom, right
Um, we've got monk master monkey. Do you reckon the jag could be monday mats son?
I might hidden away. I hope the apple does fall far from the tree
I don't want to see jared's boulder collection
Oh
Why has he stuck them over each other why would
Are those just the fucking box like the cardboard boxes without the plastic fit in front of it
There are better ways to stick what you like on your wall. There are better ways
Like does he never had a poster there's not a single poster in this room that's typically that's all just it just cut out
from whatever
And maybe some of these were from posters. He just cut out the parts of the poster that he liked
Exactly stuff and see how we got the surfboards of the fishes and stuff, man
Uh, you have more skateboard stuff skateboard stuff
Oh
There's there we go something that actually implies christianity
Yeah, it's in this fix ninja turtles again, of course
See I would accused I would accuse the writers of sort of a plot hole there, but they do have it
They didn't forget there is continuity is still up
Right next to the fucking ninja turtles lots of ninja turtle stuff
Good lord, that is a lot. That's that's the wall he can see as well at his computer and that
Yeah, that would make sense. He just stares at it all fucking day
He's proud of it
What the hell?
Right. What the what's wrong with that poster? So that's full. That's so like
He cut up a poster into four bits and let's take them together
Why didn't he just put the whole thing, you know ninja tales do not imply christianity
I I know out of the shadows but jesus on a cross kind of implies it
That's his shtick, you know, oh there's either beavis or butthole was plushies
There's beavis or butthole whichever one
um
Oh my god, dude god tidy it up. Oh look it's cat in the hat. It's the grinch
It's the grinch and cat in the hat he's got a an old nes controller
What a treasure trove
Oh, this is pc giraffe
Yeah, oh, yeah. Oh, he's got an actual desktop. He's just got stuff piled up in the corner
Um, oof, that's where he throws all this. Oh god under that table, dude. Oh, oh god
Look at the fucking wall where all the shit just builds up
It's thanks for thanks for showing us the fucking plugs in your computer
What if he just has like a magnet stuck to the computer? I hope that's the case
Wait, he's got the side panel off and the plushies are actually entering the pc
It's her cooling it's a purely utilitarian
Oh god, he breaks up
Doesn't have a panel either
That's like it doesn't have a panel that's kind of dangerous because the metal on top of the panel
Why does he not have fucking wall panels in this room? How can you be this fascinating in two minutes?
Skeleton skeleton, we can read the symbols. Oh wait, what is this? All right, so what oh he's playhouse
Wow
Wow
I'm glad you two know what that is because I was like, why the fuck are there anthropomorphic toilets on because you shit in the toilet's mouth
That's what you do
What are you? I'm a fucking hate shit
There he is
All those fucking dudes he drew those he drew them
He took a skeleton and he marked it up man. Those are runes. I think that is a spell casting skeleton
That must be what it is. It must be a part of his rituals
Spelled
Is that the official name of the skeleton now?
Skeleton
He just he's got his little runes that he drew on bony that's what it is bony
I just I love how he's so casual about that door
That's completely normal. This is normal. I wanted to see under the desk. Damn it. Oh god. Oh, no
Oh god, is he stepping on x bottles? Is that an old xbox on the windowsill? My theory, I think it is. Yeah
And my theory is he's stepping he's stepping on empty bottles of alcohol and empty like packets of hot wheels
It's got to be what it is
Yeah, because he's like he's clearly stepping on like plastic trash he's stepping on
But yeah, that's an og xbox
What what book is that catechism of the catholic church, oh wow and then underneath it is something by
The baron stain bears
I think that's the baron stain bear is just like in pds. How's that for imagery?
It's got a shit ton of childish books and then the catechism of the cat. No pd eastern
He wrote like go dog go the best nest. That's it. That's the best nest
That's the book it's the best nest
Here let me send you a picture. I know exactly what that book is. It was one of my favorites when I was you know, a small child
No, it's great it's it's really good story it's about a bird
It's about a husband bird and he has to go look for a new nest
For you know the wife bird and he goes to all sorts of different places. That's the book right there
What's on the skateboard that looks like something you attach to like jesus christ
How did you even figure that out by the fucking pink and bite?
Because the best it's pv easman and the best nest it was it was a pink book
I just remember from my childhood because I read the shit out of it
Because he is he tries to build his nest and like all sorts of stuff
What is just half a log it's half a piece of log
What the fuck did you say I wanted to log in this room?
It's like the half eaten yo-yo for this log
These half eaten logs it's a it's first it's a jetzons game or cd or something
Um hand hand thing to thumb
Is that uh fucking uh, fuck what's the stupid monkey's name?
George something or other? George. Yeah, I agree. Is that a curious george book?
I think the wood thing is like a toy for like a gerbil cage or something. What if that what if that's like supposed to go
in the fish tank
Dude, this is it could be it could be yeah. Oh god
I want to see under his bed. I want to see under the desk too
Yeah under his table bed. Dude. Look a book would have folded off the shelf in the background. He was just like
Yeah, I guess it's just gonna have a broken spine now. That's where it's gonna be. Oh, well, I love the spine bent pages
Yeah, uh, the half eaten yo-yo was just a theory we've actually got half eaten logs as confirmed lore now
No, I think it's like for a terrarium or something
Because you see them all the time in like zoos and uh, like snakes and spiders and stuff. I think it's as fuel
It could i'm going to choose to interpret it as it makes sense because he ate out the middle of the log
But he left the crust
Why is there a christian block of cardboard?
What does that mean bro
Yeah
I wonder what's inside that wall
Yeah, man, it's an og xbox i'm just filming this on his phone shit. Yeah, dude
What's down there oh, oh what is this i'll just stuff for the I guess stuff for the
Is there an ant down there or something? Maybe
Oh
Oh my goodness
We're going in we're going in this is like a paranormal activity
Jesus christ. Oh my god. Don't go inside
Super pollo
No, it's a duck. It's a duck
What?
It's the duck. You see the face in the hand
He says it's a duck as if that's an answer
No, it is look at it. It is a duck. It's got the web feed and it's got the big yellow or orange bill
But the question is why is there a duck?
Oddly enough duck was my first word
What does that say on spanish shit you can speak spanish
No
This is just a rant it's broken too. You can see the splinters at the top. This is an actual like stick
Did he just fucking go in the woods and find a fucking branch?
Oh
I want to see a floor tour and an under the table bed tour
Come on guys. Get on this. Oh, that's the best we're gonna get it's an easter egg at the end of the video
Okay, guys, we we need to like request
Uh chat go to his channel and just request that he do a floor tour everyone in the bed tour
and an under the desk tour everyone subscribe to his channel and comment that you want to see more
and that you love it and you want to encourage him to make videos and
We're preferably interested in seeing his desk and how it was built and everything around it full of full of treasures
I want to see i'm gonna go to his social blade and
Jared is very much like an appreciative content creator
exponentially
Uh, is he the one is his channel the brown shirt where he looks like he wants to kill somebody?
This video is from jared genesis. So I just did that one
The channel is he's got a bit of shit. All three of his channels are Jared
Shit what the one where he's naked from
Uh, let me see
Thank you youtube for having my no, that's not it this is it
Oh god
The curious case of jared genesis is his latest video and it's just showing his like man tits sagging over his stomach
Well, yeah, he's got like
38 subscribers 30 16 plus seven. It's like damn jared
Go subscribe to this man. Subscribe to all well, it's a blue profile picture
It's just kind of like an encourage topics guys encourage topics
You got to be like asking him questions
And what we'll try and figure out eventually is basically get a top voted, you know, Jared videos you want us to cover
I think that'll be the only way we can do this logically speaking. Um, you guys still good to now watch an actual video
Um, and how long is it? Oh, well, we don't have to watch all of it. I'm mainly just interested in what I'm gonna make
Yeah, we can start
Oh gosh, that's much louder
Wait, why is it? Oh, right. It started like halfway through. Um
Yeah, let me make sure the volume thing is in the right position because you never know where this shit
21 minutes damn
Yeah, this one's been a question quite a bit Jared genesis video the correct one anyone
Anyway, his channel he's wearing a blue shirt. Yeah blue shirt. So
Oh, yeah, I spammed it in chat. I'll just spam it again. No, you might want to spam it again
Guys this is the channel and you've got to keep track of it in order to keep track of the law
Otherwise you'll lose track and you won't understand anything
And then you can stick to us
We do check
Someone said Jared owns a sock
It's his drum sock
The empire strikes back but if you like just
Puts butter at the bottom of his sock and he uses that as a drum like he'll
Swing it around in a circle and be like he can like do a phil collins thing and be like don't don't don't don't don't
And then his drum will break
I feel like we should probably clarify it. We have to do it every time
But there's gonna be a selection of people who think we're bullying him
Um, I I I usually try and put out a word for it
But I don't know if rags off. Do you want to say something this time around?
We're gonna have to do it once every time probably
Well, yes, I am act I actually follow Jared on twitter. I am very nice to him
You guys should be very nice to him
I mean we we do kind of laugh at him because it's hard not to
But we're we are we actually want him to come on with us
Only problem is that rags needs to apologize for that to happen for what what did I do?
I guess he wants you to apologize for something and then he'll come on
I don't know what for I don't know what for either. He doesn't exactly specify
And ultimately uh Jared's goal is to share his thoughts on every topic that there ever was so honestly like
Subscribing makes him very happy
Yeah
He's interested in in in having an audience. I think rags. Did you see?
Um, because I know that people spammed me and mauler with the video
But there was like some mexican bitch that was like making a video series on jared and how he's like a whole person
And did you see that about all what person a terrible person or something? Who is this bitch?
Like it got on the look and see
It was this blasphemous cunt
Well, anyway, I I don't know. I don't remember what her name was
It was a couple weeks ago that I actually watched the video but basically in the video she was like
I know that all these subscribers. You're suddenly getting her fake. She has like seven subscribers
She's jealous of jared
He's jealous of jared's youtube success
I can't believe jared jennison. He's up to 317. That's amazing
It's the most subscribers he's ever had wait. He's got 317
317 now. Yeah, because I when I was up his page, he was on 278
So that's a bumper because you need to have like a thousand a live streamer. I think so. Yeah
Let's get him up to a thousand so he can live stream guys
Absolutely. Um, I mean we'll make him so happy too. So anyway
This is a video
Tour video, by the way, that's apparently critical of thonos from the avengers if you guys remember
And a lot a lot of people
Have requested it because apparently it's it's rather critical of the film
Let's give it a shot then
I thought you said the nose at first. What the fuck are you talking about?
The empire strikes back ruined everything
We took the wrong lessons from it
I am so conflicted on this movie
This piece will probably be divisive and I don't intend it to be but this movie is unapologetically divisive
I'll readily admit my show is about celebrating films and
One of the most high rated marvel movies I wouldn't I wouldn't have described infinity war as divisive but
I'm willing to hear him out. Let's give him a shot. He's got the essay format in full
He's even got the nice voice, you know, well the
Soft voice or softish. I don't know. Maybe people wouldn't interpret it as that, but
We shall see because i'm going to do in this piece
That isn't all i'm going to do i've celebrated marvel movies many many many times in the past. What's with the fucking music?
I guess he's going for melancholic. That would be
People like asked me or a guy asked me on twitter the other day like why don't you hear his music and you're like it's
Shit like this where they like put this melancholy bullshit music in the background to emotionally manipulate you into feeling something about this piece of shit videos
Distracting you from the otherwise piece of shit vapid commentary
Yeah, i'm not going to say i'm 100 against it
But like in this case, for example, it is very like wow, this seems a little bit
Over the top, but you know
Whatever. It depends on what he's got to say really for me. We'll we'll break make or break this
Stand by what was said in those pieces because there was one powerful through line in all of those films
Marvel movies are not made just for kids and they're not made just for adults and they're not made just for fans of the comics
That's why they're successful. No one owns them
Marvel films are made for everyone
They know him by disney
Jesus, he's already at 343 now
nice
I think jarry should be pretty
He might be able to make a video in celebration. So thank you all in chat for for supporting him. Um
Yeah, this is the other thing by the way about video essays
It's very much a nitpick and maybe this doesn't apply to this this guy
But I don't know. I feel a little bit right now like come on. Come on. Come on, you know
And I think if you're going to take something from this piece, it's that infinity war wasn't made for everyone
Certainly wasn't made for fans of guardians of the galaxy. He wasn't
Why uh, why would it not be also the fact that james gun wrote the dialogue or at least consulted so
Wouldn't it be pretty pretty? Oh, uh, whatever he's made the point. He hasn't got any evidence yet. Got him. Jesus cry
One thing. Wait, was it a joke?
What I was that a joke? Let me go back. What was the punch line exactly this piece?
It's that infinity war wasn't made for everyone certainly wasn't made for fans of guardians of the galaxy
Got him jesus cry one thing. I don't get it. Yeah, I don't get it. What was the pool?
That doesn't make any fucking sense
All i've got in my head and this is very vague is you know, obviously they get dusted pretty much all of them
So is it a joke that this obviously wasn't made for them because they got dusted?
Is that it
I don't know. I'm not
Why wouldn't you have shown a clip of them getting dusted though? If that was the case where?
Yeah, I don't know lost on that one
That has not changed about my show is I am not trying to take anything away from anyone
Not you not your friends nor do I attempt to sway your opinion on this movie
Surely you want to sway someone's opinion on this if you're going to be providing an argument
Yeah, I want people to believe me
But I want to convince people, you know, are you saying the reason you're sharing it is because you just want people to hear you
Because you know i'm assuming basically what i'm trying to get at is if his if his only intention was to be heard then wouldn't he just say
I found the movie device. He's gonna prove his points i'm assuming because it's 20 fucking minutes
He's gonna do something but like there's no harm in wanting to sway someone's opinion. Oh put the volume down. Wow
Never actually thought i'd hear that turn it down
But I am going to state my own love it hate it be you
And it doesn't really matter if I say that some people are about to get very mad at me in the comments
It always happens in oh
He defended the last jedi
I imagine that he probably
Didn't appreciate the ratings for this one and it was opposed to 3000 downs. And this is the thing. Um
He called it in defense of last jedi. So i'm assuming he's going to have defended it for its, you know
Positive elements which probably got him in trouble because
It's difficult to do because of the fact like we we just saw macintosh having to invent a film to be able to defend
The last jedi which is what just right did as well
Did dare I name more people? So like of course it gets you in a little bit of trouble
Um, but if he'd said I I just like it. He probably would have been okay
Infinity war both worked and didn't work for me personally
And I know that viewpoint and perspective is not rare
I think it all hinges on thanos infinity war is a magnificent achievement that made anyone else distracted by the slow motion clips
Feels odd to me
When it when it started off with like slow mo luke's hair blowing I was like, why does this look so off?
Yeah, just stylistically, I don't know because he's got access to the movie
I don't know why he can't just have full motion clips, but fair enough
It's some depressingly baffling decisions for a lot of people and I don't like watching my friends get upset
I've been wanting to talk about this movie since it came out in theaters
Now that it's on blu-ray I can talk about it here
I don't know. I think it's making the film look a bit. Yeah when you slow it down like this
Like it like it actually comes across as laggy to me
But it is consistent frame raiser. I don't know. It's back
It's like with the uh old slow mo before super slow mo cameras were invented. Oh, man
Couldn't you just skip that two minutes?
This is the worst intro I think i've ever seen in my entire lives. I had some buncha crunch on my desk
Who took my buncha crunch?
I don't know. Is this a meme or is this an in-house joke?
I don't know. I don't know what buncha crunch is. Huh?
Also, wow
Can I just suggest tonally you might want to design a different intro if you're gonna have an intro intro to his videos
Intro was very as we said melancholic and then he's like
It's like wait what like okay, you can play alvin in the chipmunks on your
Okay
Is this not just like the absolute shittiest music ever oh why
Hey
What are we what is this if he I don't know it's weird that he had let's talk about phantas
Was way shorter than the buncha crunch thing
I don't know what's going on. I'm confused. I don't know. That's why I don't do
Intros this is shit
Avengers infinity war is a film directed by joe and anthony russo and written by christopher marcus and stephen mcfeely
It stars everyone. Thanks for telling us that i've always um been because i'm overly critical with everything
That's one of the first points. I actually made when I was trying to make reviews
I was like people always open with saying
The date the thing was released and then who made it and they never have any reason for mentioning these things
Like, you know if you're saying it's relevant to the topic
Don't it don't waste our time with it
It's like they went to the wikipedia page and they were like, well, I gotta do this because what else can here's some
Information to show you that I know there's a few things I could say about
mcfeely and the russo brothers
But it's like I probably wouldn't even mention that they made it until maybe the end and say like these people should be you know
Maybe congratulated for their work. But uh, yeah, you just you sort of just glanced over
I wonder if that's gonna come back up. I don't I don't know in a movie ever and it grossed
Uh more than two billion dollars
And I like it a lot. It does a lot of things really well
so
To get to the thing. I actually want to talk about here are the things that absolutely rule about this movie
It sets the stakes immediately thanos kills the villain of the first avengers film and out hulks the hulk
Thanos as a cg character is an incredible accomplishment and josh brolin does an incredible job with what he just want to say
I agree with everything so far. So yeah
Better than what he has given actually
It's incredibly well shot with trackable action for an audience with wild wild imagination
Spider-man is still just a kid on the bus
And on a spaceship the way the avengers mix their powers through the entire film is incredible
Thor mixes perfectly with the guardians of the galaxy again something set up by rebooting the tone of the thor franchise
In ragnarok so that he could fit alongside the guardians. Yeah
I mean you could go in some some more detail on these things
But sure because the reason I agree with these is because I agree with these anybody who doesn't agree with this would probably find
This bit tough to actually watch
I mean, it's just like here
I'm going to point out all these things that all of you already know and waste your time before I actually get to the point
It's it's let's get let's get the things we agree on out of the way
So that when we get to the things we don't agree on we've already established that
I'm not even trying to be mean here
But like I kind of want to skip to the part where we disagree because like he's not going to develop any of this stuff
So i'm just like, okay
Groot's arm is the handle of the thanos killing weapon. That was really clever and cool
The way wanda saves vision and herself from a mighty fall was super clever tony nighting spider-man
See so to add to advocate for the people who might disagree with all those things. They'd be like, why is it clever?
Yeah, I mean we don't have a problem because we agree
But because I could argue for him, but like yeah, it's just I also wouldn't call that a mighty fall of
20 feet
Hmm to the avengers was awesome. I love that spider-man and star-lord bond over footloose
Exactly like footloose
Is it still the greatest movie in history? It never was
He cut the reaction from star-lord, why did he do that? That's the best bit
Best jokes in the movie
What did you imagine at least it may be less even a stopwatch and steve rogers introducing himself to groot
chef's kiss
Hi, i'm steve rogers
It's a ride of a film with a hell of a lot going on which in many ways was the point
There's an air of can we really pull this off about the whole? I kind of want to watch this movie now
It's like let's watch the infinite this
Dude, I can't believe with four and a 20 minutes 26 in how cool
This is the quickest we've ever been through a video because nothing's really getting done yet
He's just like viscerally reminding me like oh, yeah, I really like that movie
And that part was good I agree
Amazing we get into the bad bits now from the rusos or marvel it took 18 movies worth of characters
And made something that no character really has control of okay Thanos
Which brings us to
Okay
Why did you write that french this was natural infinity war feels like a season finale more than a film because it's kind of by definition
Nothing, but it's not a season, but it also sounds strange
Well, it's obviously not literally a season finale but you could oh, yeah
Yeah, but I mean there's still gonna be another infinity war movie
Yeah, but there's a season two right of oh, I guess you're saying it's like part one of a finale in a way
Yeah, because I mean wouldn't the finale finale be like the
because once
The next infinity war movie is done wouldn't that be the season finale so to say
Yeah, this is almost like the episode before the season finale. Okay, there's no reason to sort of especially so because it's like
The next one comes out what next year, right?
Uh, actually like I feel like it's like half a year from now
Actually, i'm not sure all I know is that the trailer should be out by now. We need to get hype going guys
Generate that hype
The first time i'm gonna be hyped for a marvel movie weird
The first thing the first thing thanos and the film does is attack and murder unarmed refugees fleeing their war-torn homeland
uni kills half of them
Just a detail you need to catch that
that is just a allegory for
White people I just because racist xenophobia if he's gonna start arguing because I were
Judging from that statement alone. Is he gonna say that like thanos is completely insane unjust evil all this other stuff
So first of all, like I said, it's half the ship and the the writers confirmed the corg and valkyrie
The two characters we did not see are alive and well on that half of the ship
Because thanos blew up this half of the ship because he killed half of the refugees
So confused by that given that the guardians of the galaxy went there when they were like
Flying through all the rubble of the ship and they only
Thor like where's the other half of the ship exactly?
Oh, I mean that's up for thor four to to tell us all for infinity war part two
But there's a lot of things that you could ask that about in infinity war. It's like, okay
But what about this it's like well that's for next time. Let's just hope they don't ryan johnson. That's okay
That's that's the goal. That's what we're
Such this is compounded by the fact that it essentially undoes thor ragnarok and the entire arc for thor from that film
It undoes thor's arc
It undoes a couple things
Undoes his eye
Well, I think I feel like the eye part was kind of a part of his arguary
Got like all the fucking cool superpower shit at the end of the movie. Yeah, it's like a league new
Eye, I assumed that it was um, it was literally because like the actor wanted to not wear an eye patch or something
Yeah, and then the I mean I get the narrative reason for why they needed to forge the new
Hammer, but it's also like wasn't the whole point of him losing his hammer so that he could like
You know
Grow. Oh, well, that's that's a huge issue in terms of just like you probably should have made this weapon a while ago
If it's like the most powerful thing on the planet
I don't know. There's a lot they don't explain about that or or just not destroyed
Moiner however, you pronounce that fucking me only is what's wrong with you. I don't I don't know
I only pronounce american word. Sorry that ain't no merkin word
Oh, yeah, uh
You know, I agree with those those bits. Um
Undoing his arc. I just I just need clarification on what he considers his arc because it's a couple of things, right?
It's not just like I wouldn't say it would undo his entire arc, but it kind of made a couple bits of it irrelevant
Yeah
Screams are heard echoing from the peanut bleachers like people electively trapped in a cave with all bad is subjective. So it's a megaphone
Yeah, I know
He's also the protagonist of the film who is given a goal to accomplish and does accomplish it which is clever
Would not say he's the protagonist. I mean i'm okay with the interpretation
I'm just curious how that counters the idea that he's bad. He set that up as if it counters the fact that he's bad
Because I mean, you know, you could argue palpatine is the protagonist of the prequels
If if your logic is they have a goal to achieve and they achieve it by the end
You know, it depends
Uh, yeah
Congolent amplifies many of the things that turned people off to this film the tone of this thing is unrelentingly dire
Multiple characters are tortured their screams agonizing which i'll admit
I had a pretty tough 2017
And that amount of trauma was tough for me to deal with in the theater
I kept pretending to go to the bathroom
The film made me feel bad and reminded me of a lot of real world stuff
That what a soy boy. What a little bitch. I wonder if that's gonna play into his assessment
I was triggered by a fucking cgi rock burning
People can draw whatever they're gonna draw. I just hope he doesn't sort of
Convert that into some kind of like this shouldn't be happening in marvel or something. I don't know what bad shit happened in 2017
That made him get triggered by this i'm sorry, but what the fuck also
Yeah, I have to say like does he not watch or consume media?
That's a little bit, you know on the on the like there's way worse stuff than that
Infinity war is what did it for you then?
Damn, so it's like does he this is a genuine question. Does he consume adult content?
That's my question. Is the da Vinci code the most mature thing he's watched
I don't know man. I seriously have
This was not baby violence. Come on
Because I was gonna say they're deliberately non
They're not very violent in these films because of the fact they have to reach a certain rating
They try to avoid the most violent thing you'll see is iron man getting stabbed with something but you barely see any blood
And he doesn't die from it. Yeah, it's very very tame in these films. Usually not alone on that one
Do you remember a black path? The woman got his his neck slit open. There was no blood or markings
It's just like now she's dead a lot of people about this movie torture torture torture torture
I apparently people in the chat are saying he almost died because of multiple sclerosis
Okay
This is the thing. I don't I don't take away from anybody associating whatever they want to whatever they want
This is entirely subjective. I just uh, it's strange that this is what did it for him when it was so
You know tame tame compared to what you can really consume
And I just assume I assume he's a media channel as in he consumes media. That's that that would be
What's his channel name? I want to see what kind of movies movies with mikey or something or film joy
Yeah, I assume he watches a lot of films
film
joy
Uh, uh, just wait someone said for your information this guy wrote alien colonial marines. Is that true?
If that is then holy shit, does he not know what he
Read or is that just a random comment? This is a joke or is that true? Because
Um, let me see
alien
Writer mikey newman was the writer for aliens colonial marines. Oh god
And if you go to his about page says he doesn't say his name his full name
Just said or mikey's twitter. Let's see if that does it
My oh my god, he did write aliens colonial
This is the guy who wrote aliens colonial marines. Okay. Well, we can say for sure that he doesn't know what the fuck he's talking about then
Hey, well, we're still waiting for an argument
I know it's been six minutes. I mean i'm sorry, but
You pull molar if you played aliens colonial marines. Well, that's the thing I have it because of
Okay, the watching reviews of it. Okay. Well, I did play it and it is one of the most
Abominable stories. I think i've it's like honestly last jedi levels of wait
So to clarify if the mechanics were amazing you'd still be saying that right?
Yes, but the mechanics aren't yeah. Yeah, that's just a clarification because I didn't actually know what story was
I mean like this story is like borderline retarded. It's but yeah, it's not borderline retarded
It just is it is retarded. We're not gonna hold these things against him
We're gonna allow him free of those claims even if I know they're 100 true
We're gonna see what he has to say because I know it's been six minutes, but he still hasn't made his point yet
Just from looking at his channel, uh the videos he's or the movies he's reviewed none of them are really violent
Maybe he doesn't like violent movies. That could actually be a thing
I mean
There are some movies like star wars and other marvel films
That's about as violent as it gets like no blood or shit
Hey blade runner is probably the most violent thing he's watched
He's got to it's just weird. It's weird to me torture torture torture. I get it
Stakes get escalated over 18 films to make Thanos feel dangerous
He's fucking accordion music in the back and that mileage will vary by person
But I draw an arrow back to fucking blanket shields for everyone seeing a film wield trauma
Like a circus act is a little rough. Whoa
What do you mean wield trauma like a circus act?
Wield trauma like us. That is a strange phrase. I would love to
lot a lot of things that could mean
Like yeah, my immediate assumption was he was saying like they're trivializing trauma
Which he's watched john wick. I hope he's not saying that
How can you watch john wick and think that this is too violent? You've seen john wick. That's way more violent
This doesn't make any sense
And uh, all right keep going
Get in the car kids we're going to a disney movie
What the fuck was that?
I guess he's he's basically he's complaining that there's too much violence for this movie. Okay
That's that's what he's saying. I think that's fucking stupid. Yeah, I mean until
Do you want me to just cite the times in the previous marvel films where there's been something violent in them?
Because there's plenty he said john wick was a slasher
Um
Um, I would go I would go with action movie first, but sure as
Okay
In the sense that a lot of people die, I guess makes light of them for entertainment
The film makes light of serious issues for entertainment. Wow
What the film does not make light of the serious issues at all. It's precisely why we take them seriously my friend
It's why majority of audiences were dead silent once the credits hit at the end of infinity walk
Oh, yeah, the fucking theater was silent as the grave, man
People didn't know what to think it was not played for entertainment
Is well, I mean, I guess it is played for entertainment in that entertainment loosely that it's engaging. Yeah
But um again the word i'm waiting for him to use is trivialize if he uses that which it sounds like he would have
Been a synonym there once upon a time tony stark just wanted some burger king
Okay, that's all that's it. He just wanted some burger king. That is tony stark
What?
Tony stark just wanted some burger king
Okay, now he's hurtling through space with an arachnid teenager and a space wizard, which is impressive space wizard
Here we go. We got a space wizard. Ladies and gentlemen, we got space wizard
Wait, he dies
So that pokes a hole in uh, what's this?
Yeah
Yeah, he's gonna come back and that's the male fantasy
Yeah, uh pull this guy coming back to life just like jesus
I am man's ark was once upon a time. He simply wanted a burger now. He's flying through space with space with
All I wanted was burger I get the richest man in the world get some burger king. It's the burger ark
Invincingly but the danger also has to escalate the stakes need to escalate however arbitrarily we get there
Arbitrarily
Everything in a movie is like arbitrary because you write it the way that you write it
Just like what do you mean? It just is arbitrary. I suppose. I mean that is he did say at the beginning
He doesn't want to convince anyone of anything. I guess he really is just stating
His state of mind and that's it fucking convincing me
He's not he's not really making any points. He's just saying things
With a lot of new york exploding avengers 2 dealt with a fictional european town exploding civil war
Convincingly dealt with the fallout of those stakes by having the characters deal with the consequences. Oh, so he likes civil war
He doesn't like the others of their actions
Never mind grimaces pissed this movie set stakes so unrealistically high that they don't even bother justifying them
They set the stakes so high. They don't justify them
What do you mean by that I I need so much more explanation from this guy
Yeah, this is at the stake. So hot. Just tell me what you mean, please
Just some dude is like
Not enough to go around
And when we faced extinction I offered a solution and it's accepted as some kind of truth really Thanos. Yeah by him
Yes
There were not enough resources
Like we can refuse to believe that that was the answer. Of course. The point is that he believes it was the answer
Yeah, he's telling the story
He's telling us that from his perspective and that he was denied and then his people died and that was enough for him to
Start applying this worldwide
Yeah, he knows what happens when you fail and don't forget he did it with gamora's world. Remember and it was successful
Yeah, so he has it justifies to him what he needs to do
If he doesn't do it, it fails if he does do it it succeeds
That's what happened in the movie mikey
How much you gotta eat to maintain that physique dude is like eight five and weighs like
980 pounds a cow weighs a little more than that and can eat 27 pounds of food
Yeah, this is what does that have to do with shit?
I don't know like i'll be honest like, you know
This is a little bit inappropriate compared to how you were just talking about the films being overly violent
Brent is for the sake of entertainment how it affected you personally and now you're going off
Now he's trivializing his own video now, but you know, fair enough day and cows don't look like that this movie what even
All right. He is an unrelenting exercise in abuse trauma and torture. It tries to justify not he's torturing
And he doesn't necessarily want to do it. It's because it's getting him the devices that he needs
To save the world. That's how he sees it. Yeah. Yeah, remember thanos thinks that he's the savior of the universe
He thinks he's going to save the galaxy here
Of course, what he's doing is horrific and cruel
But he's using it as a tool to get what he needs to get to save the world
Yeah, he he very pragmatic himself because he knows that it's to in his mind something he has to do it has to be done
Yeah, we don't have to agree with it at all. And we absolutely would seem as a bad guy because of this as do all the heroes
non-ambiguously
abuse
with love
What abuse is love?
I mean that's not necessarily a
a false hood
There are people on the planet who do consider like do abuse that who they love i'm not i'm confused what's your point?
And torture it tries to justify non-ambiguously
abuse
with love
It tries to justify that abuse is love
Okay, I need to unravel this in my own head
So is he arguing that the film is telling us that thanos really did love gomorrah despite the fact that he would always torture her
Or something? Is that what he's saying? The film is saying
If anything it shows that he doesn't enjoy torturing his people because he loves them not not just that though, but like we
That was a very specific torture
You get a specific outcome. We're not told that that's that's a part of the course. That's just something he does every day
You can say he doesn't torture gomorrah
The one that he loves the problem that I have overall with this though that even if he's right even if
Thanos tortured her every day and said this is actually me loving you
That's totally a thing that could have happened and that's a part of his character perhaps that he sees love that way
I'm confused as to what your point is you telling us that the film is justifying it like it's a good thing
You think the film's telling us that him torturing people is a good thing?
This is so
We tortured the jews and that was definitely a good thing. I'm so confused
Help me out here. I need explanations
I'm gonna hold you to task for doing that marvel. I was on your team
That's why I'm nitpicking you it's not justified from a film making perspective. I'm not talking about the plot
I'm talking about the people that made decisions to do this. You actually do have responsibilities
Fuck off. What is he talking about? You're you have responsibilities bullshit. You fuck off this instant. You hack piece of shit
Don't you even pull that garbage with me these content creators? They have a responsibility to make the content that I find except
Yeah, I mean you definitely you're definitely right on that
I'm I the reason i'm not even annoyed yet is because I still have no idea what he wants
I can't believe we're 18 minutes and 11 seconds in and I still have no idea what's happening in this video
all he has said that the the movie is too violent and um
It equates abuse is love
I guess
If because you did say it justifies the abuse is love or something like that
But again, I just stand by the fact that there are fucked up people on this planet
Who actually do abuse the people they love and they consider it like tough love or something like that. Those people exist
Like I don't you saying that they should never portray these people
even if there is villains
I'm confused
I am too man. I mean already said it better films not saying that that's a good thing. Yeah, he's the villain
He's the bad guy
He's bad
Also, yeah to clarify art has no responsibility is very true. Uh, you should never be held
Unless of course you made a statement about your art before it came out that it will be x y and z and then it's not
You know there are specifics to this but the idea that you must make something that does x y and z is ridiculous
It's a very authoritarian mindset. It's it's one it's what it's someone who wants to control media
Is essentially what that boils down to deep down people
Talking about the plot i'm talking about the people that made decisions to do this you actually do have responsibilities
And don't take my word for it. Maggie may fish already said it better than I ever
Who's maggie may fish?
Uh, well just by looking at her face here. I you know
Maggie may fish
Um doesn't even sound like a real name. She is an actress from sand castles and get you back
um
The tony larin larin show
She was on the tony larin show
so
An actor writer comedian dreamworks tv cracked jash machinima
I'll eat the raisin. I'll eat the raisins. Okay
Los angeles california, I guess let's let's see what she's got to say. Uh, california cracked
She looks like this
Responsibilities and don't take my word for it. Maggie may fish already said it better than I ever will
This narrative is utterly hopeless
How many young children will watch this movie sitting in a theater right next to an authority figure who abuses them?
The message that that child. Oh, i'm sorry. You've drifted right into
hyper interpretation now
Yeah
Some some child might interpret something that they see in a movie is something that it's totally not supposed to be interpreted as because they have this
crazy unusual fucked up real life situation and so
Those two mix and can possibly create things this is essentially the think of the children argument
For art and just you can't portray this in art because think of the children if anybody in the chat is like, uh, no
She's right. I'll just give you a counter example. Um adventure time, which is the most like child friendly thing
You're going to come across
There's these characters that are candy in the world parts of them like fall off
Sometimes will get eaten or whatever it else and I should be like what if a kid interprets that as he's supposed to eat his friends?
Oh
No, this is essentially saying
This is an argument used by
Everything from christian fundamentalists to the far left anyone who wants to be an authoritarian
Uh, we can control the art that you create and we can control the art that you consume
Because think of the children some not literally 100 percent of everybody
Might get the message correct or interpret things correct. Therefore you have a responsibility to
More that's that's a horrible comparison. Uh, you don't get it then like seriously
It's about the fact that you just draw whatever you want out of the the source
It's not the film even if the film had a character outwardly suggest that anybody who loves you should hit you
That would still be like think of the children what they'll learn from this. It's like that's
There's horrible shit in loads of content. It's about displaying life as a reflection
I mean look at the villain look at the the villain in every disney
Every single disney movie the villain does terrible things
Where's the outrage there? I mean look look at uh, uh, not cinderella, but like tangled and repunzel
You know the witch loves repunzel or whatever and so they want she she says she wants to keep her safe, right?
in the tower
I mean that's that's keep that's kidnapping under the guise of love. I just don't understand
I don't understand how he's coming to this conclusion that like this movie's trying to tell people that like this is okay
Because it's like he kills like almost all of the people
ever
in the universe
And he's like the main force of evil like how how does he come into this conclusion?
Anyone's defending this shit. He's supposed to be the one that you're fighting against
That's why every nothing wrong
And I don't think this is portrayed as like a good thing
This is the I think this is the problem
The film confirms for the audience that you need to sacrifice someone you love to get the soul stone
So he throws her off
Despite being someone who caused her a lot of damage in her life and it it confirms the film is like yes
He did love her meaning that his abuse of her is confirmed as someone who's loving again. I'm just like, yeah
That's something that occurs in real life
It's like he's trying to say that
because it's uh
They tried to make the villain more relatable, which is something that a lot of stories try to do
That they're trying to be like see he's not like the most evil person ever they're
Okay, it's like no he's still evil
But you're trying to make him relatable because that's a more
um
Enticing villain and like somebody in the chat brought up the incredibles bad guy syndrome
Like these people watch incredibles
Too violent. I mean, yeah
We can say you're literally all day pick any children's content and then just think of the worst thing that could be interpreted from it
It's easy and um the idea that marvel confirmed through the mechanics of this universe that thanos truly did love her
And that he was shown in the film as abuse
Telling children that abuse is a form of love. That's I think what their concern is
But the fact is it's like don't you understand these people exist?
There are people in the world. They're monsters. Love people too. I was like you you don't
I don't think you get it. It's like it's about thanos's character and you'd be like well
That's even because he loves me even if that's true
It's inappropriate for children at which point I just be like the the I mean watch anything from like
Yeah, you're not giving enough credit to children's content, especially older disney stuff. There's plenty of deeper themes
And questions to be asked about what stuff means what?
It's just like you decided to dig into infinity war for some reason
You didn't dig into anything else. Look at the lion king. That wasn't exactly like yeah
super light child friendly
This is all sunshines and rainbows like no you remember the end of character
uh spider-man one sam ramies one where spider-man's like torn to shit by the end of it like the whole costume was
Fucked up and his blood all over his face and like oh, yeah
I just be like that's pretty that's pretty intense, but maybe maybe that's not the argument
Maybe it always has to be an inference thing, which means I just come back to adventure time like you show people
Falling apart you show you'll be happily because if someone was going to be like they're candy though
They're not humans. I just be like these aren't humans. They're clearly different species
It's like how how semantic do you want to get on this one?
I'm calling you hypocrite if you think that this film has a bad message for kids
But no other content from children's could possibly be interpreted that way
And besides
Let's be fair think of the children as one of the most annoying fucking arguments in history
There's plenty of children who would fucking adore this shit. I know I would have uh, um, I don't even know what age group
They're talking about by the way
I mean, I liked the first transformers back when I was a kid the films are 12 in my country obviously, um
So that means anybody 12 and above can go and see this do you think it's suitable for anybody 12 and above guys?
Oh, yeah, I'd say so. Yeah, I'd say there's nothing too intense. Um
And I'm curious what the age ratings on other films are I wonder if star wars is a 12 or not
Someone pointed out water shipped down is intense. I mean that's a gory ass kids movie. That shit's fucking that's hardcore
That's a twisted film
I just it reminds me of the whole thing about um, you know
Like how you should never portray things that make women
We need more women in in films to let women know that they can be actors
And like to me i'm just like stop making women and children so absurdly stupid
That they just they watch infinity war and decide they need to stop punching people they love
like really
It's it reminds me of the whole like if they play doom, they're gonna start killing people. It's like I
Okay
I played quick when I was like seven
It's I just
Yeah, you lost me but you know, we'll let him keep going I suppose
No
What about even close even if even if that were the case there's plenty of love is love in the film like sacrifice and
family and friendship and stuff, I mean did she not catch the part where uh
garlic witch was like torn up inside as she was literally killing vision are they arguing that
That they're saying abuse is only love like there's no bad side to abuse that it is love like i'm
I don't know. I guess i'll have to see. Oh, yeah, there's there's a whole lovecraftian element to adventure time. That's true
Um, there's grizzly deaths as fates worse than death in the actual show the show gets very crazy
But it's all housed in this very friendly
doughy happy simplistic environment
So it's it's you know kids won't notice the uh, the other stuff going on. Hopefully
But again, and the interpretive stuff is just fucking annoying
Plus filmmaking, that's why the positive movie guy is so pissed off
But before I transition over to Thanos
Let's talk about the guardians for what does this have to do with the video called? Let's talk about Thanos
Why are you transitioning to the guardians of the galaxy? What does this have to do with anything french bullshit?
Partita
I don't think this film really understood or nailed the tone of the guardians of the galaxy. Oh
I thought that you fucking masterfully put it in I thought it was one of the best parts of the film
I mean it was really seamlessly
Transitions I can believe how well the guardians films slotted right into avengers tone like it was
But you know, it's both me and and mikey have now made opposing statements
Neither of us have arguments, but I wonder if he's going to provide any of this
And usually that would be easily set aside, but this one's complicated
What cannot be set aside is gomorrah and quill especially gomorrah because y'all did her dirty or nebula
Uh, he likes just to just not
Qualify anything we do not qualify
Less non sequitur meme more explanation. Yeah, like stop wasting time
On just making more points that don't go anywhere
She didn't strike me as being any different in this movie as she was the guardian films
It literally fell exactly like a guardian every time they yeah, I mean I
Literally introduced as being tortured for months on end and left in suspended disassembled
Of course he's smirking. He's just proven his daughter to be a liar. He outs foxed her
He's satisfied he's not a fucking good guy
Stop acting like the film thinks he's a good guy. That's the thing. He he immediately opened this up with saying that
protagonist which is like
so
It means he has to be a good guy apparently I don't know. Yeah. Oh, yeah protagonist doesn't have to be a good moral person
citizen gang
Punisher
I mean he's supposed to be gray. That's the point of him, right?
I star killer force unleashed
any character in joe avercroft these books
Geralt of rivia where thanos can just inflict untold pain in his daughter whenever he wants
Like I get yeah, that's what bad guys do he's doing it for a point though
He's actually doing it for a reason in this scene. He's not just doing it
He's like literally trying to get more to do
Quill spent two movies learning what it meant to be an adult all seen
Not sure I agree with that one learning what it meant to be an adult
I don't think he was doing anything else but being an adult. I would rather argue he learned more about like
Opening up to a he basically creates a new family by the end of it, right because he's lost his and the ravages
He always looked at yondu as being someone who was never his actual friend
He was always trying to abuse or eat him as he says
And so he's a lone ranger and he's actually gonna work with people now. I don't know about
Learn to be an adult. I'd love to hear the uh perspective on that one through the lens of coming to grips with the death of his parents
One he himself had to kill to save the galaxy coming to grips with adult responsibility and learning not to be an idiotic man child
And you literally showed the scene where he idiotically
Overreacted and tried to kill someone who can't be killed and it ended up getting himself captured
I'm pretty sure the point is that he's an incredibly emotional creature
Yeah, we see that in infinity war too
Strange
This is the thing now
He's making all these arguments for guardians of the galaxy that he's not qualifying when we were just going through the ones about Thanos
It's like come on, dude
Almost like these films were autobiographical for james gun
He himself coming to grips with the james guns did the fucking consulting on the guardians in infinity war dude shock artists
He used to be and trying to be a better person and learn through his art things
Disney already knew about and fired him anyway on behalf of a lot of people acting in 100
Sure, but like what does this have to do with the video?
Even even I don't even agree that these people are arguing in bad faith
See that you're doing the macintosh thing you're doing the sjw thing where you assume everybody's intention
Yeah, you label them as having those intentions and then you dismiss them
There's a lot of people who really just didn't want him anywhere near disney stuff after seeing what he had written because that's up to them
people feel things
Yeah, that doesn't mean they're acting in bad faith acting in bad faith is is pretending to be outraged just because you don't like him
Bad faith which disney also knew and it's easy to readily admit he made tasteless jokes about abuse in tweets
He deleted and apologized for as he grew as a human
I mean, I agree, but it's still on disney's part to decide if they want to keep him hired or not. That's up to them
I can disagree with the decision all I want, but like what are you what are you trying to prove?
He apologized for the thing he did. Okay, they can still fire him. It's not like it's illegal
Confused is just the person he was at the beginning of the first movie
He's impulsive childish and he was impulsive in guardians, too
There's no way that you couldn't argue that makes mistakes that gamora pays for with her life and even after she
How does he how does his mistake
What how does he yeah, he pulled the trigger
but the only reason that
That her brain's gonna get splattered all over the place is because fanos and that was turned into a bubble gun
And that was after all of the guardians ignored his attempt to create a plan if you remember
A plan that he ends up doing on titan that works by the way until he obviously ruins himself
But when does he cost her life? I don't know
I mean he they were on a different planet at the time
so
Yeah, I actually would argue that the guardians themselves as a team are pretty childish gamora's like the mum, you know
like the team of them are all very
let's say
underdeveloped
Under matured and like that's a part of the charm
unfocused kind of because they're all just sort of
You know, and that's a great part of them. They're like a big family. It's awesome. Um
The quill is certainly not a paragon of maturity by the end of guardians 2 I certainly wouldn't say that myself he dies
He's still making the same mistakes
So he's not even learning from the shit in your own movie like the avengers
Win, but he's just so mad about the woman. He might be in love with the most might
He might be have you seen these films say like what the hell you he almost killed him
Oh from the first movie to save her life
And the second one they possibly say otherwise the second film he's trying to get in her pants throughout the whole thing
And it's only at the end
But they actually finally hook up because he's obsessed. He really likes it
And they go really really out of their way to show in the infinity war just how much he means to her
They are literally says that he loves her in infinity
Yeah, this is there's a lot of time spent on those two you have to actually be fair here
That marvell put their legwork in with those two they developed that relationship
This is what do you mean?
He just shows ownership over her the end shows ownership ownership. Oh my god
Why'd you have to make it about these things why can't you use references i'm sure he'll give us an example
Entire dad. He took my girl. Who are you? He took my girl. That's like a 70s thing to say really
That doesn't mean that the girl belongs to him. It's like my husband my wife
My man, they belong to you. They're they're they they're
Isn't that something people say in like every single relationship ever?
Yeah
Come on
Shives
We are such a cuck like steve that you'll be like I actually belong to her like I can't believe i'm saying this
But it's a culture thing. What him saying that is the reason why he would say that and that tony wouldn't
Because because and she would say my boyfriend. I mean if my girlfriend says the same thing to me
Does that mean that she's exerting ownership?
Would it would it have been okay if he had said my girlfriend?
That's the question, isn't it? Would it have been okay if he said my girlfriend or would that be still possessive?
I don't know. It's this guy's fucking scratching someone said my big
bullshit
mora yikes
Giving her a piece of knowledge just so thanos could kill her for manufactured stakes and using that death to prove that this abuser
I mean manufactured stakes
Is about him getting the killing everyone at the end. Are they manufactured?
It's literally been since avengers that we knew about this and that was what 2011 was it?
How are they I don't understand does love her is
Legitimately revolting you think it's revolting that thanos loves her
See this is where you're losing me uh bad people love too
Yeah, bad people love. Um
Yeah, I mean come on oh
Hitler liked animals. I guess we shouldn't like him
It's um, that's disgusting 310 to yuma. Have either of you guys seen that movie? I have not
I've never heard of it. So the film is about
A bit like an outlaw who's really
Uh, just really well known. He's being taken from
You know town a to a train the 310 to yuma to be hanged in yuma and uh along the way
he's got a bunch of people with him and um
He's not even worried because basically the angle is that he's he's you could argue he's a lot like um
He's very confident almost like a cool good guy sort of thing
You kind of like sort of get interested in him
but then um his logic is he could easily win at any moment and
It's everyone's sort of getting along
Christian Bale and Russell Crowe are the main characters and they're sort of having it back and forth trying to figure each other out and there's a scene
Where there's a guy he actually has a bit of a history with in that group who starts insulting his mother
Unlike he's getting more and more frustrated as time goes on until he snaps and like gets
He breaks free and basically throws the guy right off a cliff that they were near and uh, i'm talking about the remake as well
and um
Before he does it. He says even bad men love their mamas and throws it and it's like it's a line
I always remember because it's just like yeah bad people love people
It's a thing. You might want to look into it. I'm sorry. I mean sure there is like the fun archetype. Uh,
There's stereotypical villain like sauron or skeleton
You know those are fun
But there's also like villains like they tried to do with anos where they tried to make him, you know, relatively relatable
So that it's like oh there there's some human characteristics behind him kind of like the joker with uh, the dark knight
They try to make him not just your typical villain
You don't have to be like the most evil person
Ever in the history of anything you guys actually have some human characteristics
You guys should refresh i'm gonna i'ma post it again so you guys can get there but guards released a uh
sexy man boob 300 sub special
And you should just check out the thumbnail
Dear look at that thumbnail
Oh boy
Hold up i'm calling up youtube
Oh my god
Wow, that was that was quick. Jared. We'll probably we'll probably finish with that. Oh my god. Look at his bed
Holy shit, that's some lore expansion right there. The mattress the mattress is
It's no we're looking inside. We're looking inside the mattress. The mattress has no cover. It's just the springs
Holy shit, how do you bring that to a bed?
I've never seen the inside of a mattress before
And wow
Wow, I mean that's
That's what the inside of a mattress looks like guys we're watching that as soon as
I don't know you should put that up on the screen wall here so people can see it. Oh my god
It's only yeah, it's only a minute
Are we watching that too hot for youtube my expectations are subverted
Um
Well, we'll give this a little bit more time, but I mean that statement right there the whole
Bad people don't love like or it's it's what do you say it was it was disgusting or it was revolted
Let me back up just a bit piece of knowledge
Just so thanos could kill her for manufactured stakes and using that death to prove that this abuser actually really does love her is
Legitimately revolting
Genuinely like I feel kind of condescending to say it's like how naive are you? Do you think bad people don't love people?
Do you think do you think abusers don't love people?
Maybe he thinks films are films have a responsibility to show that evil people are just evil through and through to the core
There's nothing human about them
Do you do you think that love can only be a good like happy positive thing that there's no toxic love?
Do you know what some people do when they're like massively in love do you want stalkers are?
I mean I was in
Abusive relationship for two years. So it's this is what I this is why i'm saying. I think you're naive. I think you have no idea
what the what the the scope of love is I think that you've
You've looked at marvel and said marvel is saying that love isn't just happy and nice and that's disgusting. It's like
Ooh
Someone said someone said jews like people too
No, they don't that's just fucked up and rude. We're talking about
Murdered everyone she's ever known. No, no just half of them half of them
This is important. He only kills half of them. Yep. There is a purpose to what he's doing. I don't think he called that
I don't care about
Somebody is seeing the film through their own personal lens at this point
Just right would be very impressed
See he gave her a knife which she uses on him and is crying over
What's a little bit poetic wouldn't you say?
Yeah, it's like it's like poetry they rhyme
exactly
Are you saying that she loves crying over what she fucking that was her whole life was with him
It's all she knows. Yeah, like what is wrong with you?
Do you not understand that love is just not happy shiny everything? What is wrong with you, man?
Why why are you trying to box in the the emotion the the the experience of love
Hitler's love of germany drove him to do some kind of questionable things. I don't know this is insane
This is terrible. Is that what you're saying?
Love
And that's coming from the guy that gave you all the credit in the world
This is a decision you made and all roads lead to
Huh
Sad music dude his his tone on this video is all over the fucking place
This video is fucking awful
I'm not even surprised anymore that he's the writer empire strikes back ruined everything
We took the wrong lessons from it
Every big clearly you did chapter. What is the empire strikes back after?
See he started this film with that music and saying that and now we're at part
Quattro or whatever the fuck?
And now he's talking about
It again, so it's something
All right, then long lessons from it
Every big franchise middle chapter feels the pull of empire the big act two then learns the wrong lessons
And I get it act two the night is always darkest before the dawn
But we're just trying to be unrelenting at this point. Oh spider-man's gonna beg for his life dope
dope
What is your point here
You know these people understand how dead silent this theater was. I don't I I think he's saying they took it too far
But like who are you to say that they took it too far or didn't take it far enough. What is your argument?
Let me back. Let's take a look
Lenting at this point. Oh spider-man's gonna beg for his life dope
No, we didn't like that that's yeah, it means we didn't like it joy it means a lot
We like the character a lot. It's a great character. So seeing him go like that in a
That's the thing these when they die or whatever
It's not like this heroic death, you know, it's not noble or anything. They just disappear
It's not something you can fight against either
Like does he just not like the concept of drama? Is it horrifying to him?
I don't know. I think maybe that is the idea. Maybe the idea of conflict to him is or is it the
You know
The most common complaints the mcu was getting was that there was never any repercussions for any of the events everyone goes back to normal
So like they do this and now they've gone too far you're not allowed to do this
This is too much empire strikes back got it right when it chopped Luke's hand off and sent
Han into carbonite. That's what you're supposed to do
I don't get it
Look there's absolutely no way to say the adventure is infinity war is a bad film
Okay, it's an astonishing and occasionally tiring awesome thing
That's why mileage varies on how different people react to different films
It seems to take some cheap shortcuts in an effort to have the universe pay attention to a man who doesn't listen to logic
Or reason with terrible ideas and but he does listen to logic and reason his own
Yeah, it's complicated. It's not
Yeah, he does use logic and reason to find a solution
if you remember the part where he says um
like dr. Strange criticizes him
And uh, I think the two times that he it's all about perspective he says
Oh, yeah, you're a prophet for predicting. Everyone was going to die from lack of resource and he says i'm a survivor
So it's like oh you get an idea of how he considers himself and then he says that um
You know, he suggested a solution and then um
Dr. Strange says yeah genocide and then he came back with um, what's the line? He says something like
Uh
Where i'm going with this is that he would change he wouldn't say genocide he would say salvation for example
He's got internal logic and it's fucked but it's there consistent
And do a bunch of aggressively violent stuff to kill half the universe because he bowheadedly thinks he's right half the universe
It's not aggressively violent stuff. He literally poofs them out of existence. He actually says that's why it's preferable. It's mercy. They don't have to be murdered
Well, you know depend on your definition. You don't have to starve or be killed by people in desperation
Yeah, like come on. This is just you're not giving the movie any credit here
You're just like dropping out loads of details even when people tell him he's not a little one. It's a simple calculus
This universe is finite its resources finite. If life is left unchecked life will cease to exist
It needs correct. You don't know that
I'm the only one who knows that
I think in 2018 that do you think that proves something?
Anyone
Well, if i'm wondering why that scene doesn't tell mikey anything
I he's like
He taught he keeps coming back to that scene he tortured her to get the soul stone to complete his plan
If like let me level with you mikey if you
Thought that there was there was a button in your house. You could press that'll save everyone
And that the only thing stopping you was
Like a like a cat that was permanently stuck to it and the only way to do it was to chop through it
Wouldn't you say that's worth it?
And then it's just like okay, so let's scale that up. Would you say it's worth it for um, you know
A person who's on their death bed. Anyway, it's like oh, yeah, I guess it's like, okay
Is it with someone who isn't on the death bed, but they're 80 years old, you know, like maybe
It's like, you know
It's thanos decided that it is absolutely worth torturing nebula to be able to save the world
It's you know
I don't know what to say
That's a thing just a little tough to find entertaining for a lot of someone in the chat said mattress lives
Oh
And he just said it's difficult to find it entertaining
It's like well
That's that's on you entertaining
It's actually a pretty if it's engaging and it holds your attention and you're riveted by it and if it thrills you
You know, it's like being terrified in a movie or a video game. Is that entertaining?
Destroying half the life would like ruin ecosystems everywhere and it's like yeah, this is the thing
I don't think the film's arguing that thanos is right
He thinks he's right because he did it with the population before and it worked
That's enough to convince him. He does it with sentient life that builds civilizations not like animal populations
Yeah, we don't even know maybe maybe that is what happens. Maybe it doesn't it's
you know
He's a villain. Okay. Yeah, the whole point is he says it's better that half of everybody dies because I think that if we don't
Everyone will die and like i'm trying to
argue what he what he might say to all these things but things like whoever even gets to ask him these questions
I don't think there's a that doesn't happen in the film. And if it did who knows what he would say
It's a movie where the abuser won after murdering one of his daughters, I mean, this is part one by the way
I don't think he's gonna win overall, but sure he's crazy
He's insane
He's the mad titan
Numerous people tweeted at me when I applied even the gentlest pressure to his story
I think his narrative does a disservice to the world by continuing to just sort of make up whatever suits or punch books
Validation for a villain for starters. That's not remotely how mental illness works
Is he mentally ill you are gonna tell the world what mental illness works like?
You just said that you had like a ptsd attack because you watched infinity war
I don't think
You should be telling other people
How mentally ill they are. I'm sorry, but like
To even pretend that there's not a mentally ill person out there who actually could reach the point of being like a Thanos
It's like of course there could be mental illness is not like
Mental issues
The scale of mental illness is insane you get people out there who are convinced that they
Gain power from eating their own fingers or something. It's it's not really limited
And this continued proliferation of manufactured narrative food for explicitly to give our villains a reason to be comically evil
Is detrimental to us as a species what?
Detrimental to us as a species. It's detrimental to us to have Thanos
Don't forget this is the same guy who wrote aliens
Everyone in the audience that he has played that game
So whenever he says anything about writing you can disregard everything
Because he doesn't I mean
Wait, when that's your uh, when that's on your resume and you're the sole writer of aliens colonial marines
um
Yeah, your opinion on what writing is
And just the fact that damage to that point
It's crazy how people can take things from media like this like is this really what you see damn man
Our inability aliens colonial marines is detrimental to our species detrimental to our species and mental health in this country
The portrayal of Thanos in infinity war who is often lauded as an excellent villain
is detrimental to our species and mental health because
His craziness is used as an excuse or something. I don't know
About mental health in this country while simultaneously pumping out entertainment that just invents whatever definitions for mental health
It wants since when did the film actually state that he was mentally ill and that mental illness is the reason he's a villain
Like when when is that the thing that happens?
And who the fuck goes to who who the hell looks at a mentally ill person and says they're just like the villain of a comic book
Because i'm assuming his point is that the film is trivializing mental illness to the point where it's saying if you're mentally ill
You're probably just going to be a villain because that's how villains work
But I mean there was nothing there is nothing that even indicated him being mentally ill
I was gonna say with how little they actually present he's consistent to himself. That's kind of the point if anything
He's like really he's like kind of creepily mentally stable throughout all of this
This is the thing because I genuinely think if we had a scene where dr
Strange was like why don't you double the resources and then let's say thanos actually could do that
You could easily see him being like that doesn't solve the problem
It only stalls it and then he's like well halfing the population is the same thing
How is that going to do anything but stall it and then he's like it'll be a lesson
imagine that
You know like we never get to have these conversations because thanos is too busy actually enacting his plan like we don't know
For sure that you you've you've you've converted him into insane
Because you have all these reasons for why his plan won't work
But you don't know that he considers those valid is is kind of what i'm getting at here
So you're like he's obviously being portrayed as an insane person and it's like that
That's not necessarily the truth at all. The film does not comes across as very lucid
Yeah, that's he's he's not he's very calm in a lot of scenes
Yeah, he he when he does things he doesn't like he cries. He doesn't like it. He doesn't want to do it
Crappy that's not an infinity war problem
That's a comic problem like batman locks people up in an asylum that never makes any effort to rehabilitate them
Oh, no
Wow, okay. What a terrible cut will shut down comics. I guess I got I just what's this point there that
That is set a bad example for real life mental institutions
What's his point there like that's that's happening in arkham you can actually absolutely criticize arkham for that but it's fictional
And they're saying that that's how it works. I don't understand. Is he saying it's set a bad example for mentally ill people
No, I don't know a whole lot
I don't know a whole lot about the batman universe to be perfectly honest
But from what little i've seen from like what little comics i've read
I don't think arkham asylum was ever painted as this like super happy nice place where villains get
um rehabilitated
And like he's probably
I just I just find it interesting that he's like criticizing batman for that. It's like yeah batman
You should just be killing them. What's wrong with you?
Of fucking capturing them
You know, I find it hard to believe i'm pretty sure in the batman games
They have tapes you can pick up with the you know institutional people are actually interviewing
And talking to the the members about their problems and trying to figure them out
The idea that they don't help them at all. I think even from my perspective who's someone who's not even read a batman comic ever
Would be like I don't believe you. I want someone
who's
batman savvy just to confirm that at least three people who are batman savvy just sort of accepted that people with labeled mental
illnesses are inherently not worthy of saving
what
Wow
I get that from
Yeah, that's that's that'll that's straight out of left field there
that's
Jared makes more sense of this
You know how we said that uh
We go to jared and then we we come back down to the ground with something like like this or macintosh
We come back to reality. I think it's the reverse
Jared
Jared binds us back to the ground
Our tether to what's you know, what's real
He's what keeps us sane
somehow infinity war problem is
Sort of worse a lot of people kept telling me it's supposed to be a dumb plan
It doesn't need to make sense. That was the point
But the people that made this movie don't believe that it's a false justification. They think he's empathetic
We wanted to tell a story about a character with a really complex and empathetic interior
This is the only you can you are arguing you should not empathize with his goals which are to save everyone
Obviously ones are when this that you could that are
Complicated and who can justify what they want to do and even better if you can empathize with them in some way
They're not just cartoon characters of an evil
laughing
Villain archetype those two things from chat someone said that um, doesn't batman have mental issues himself and it's like yeah
I'm pretty sure he does
Despite being portrayed as the hero throughout
Yeah
There's a lot of heroic characters who have mental illness to deal with and someone said that um
I'm going back on my idea that you can't involve third-party media. I'm not sure
What you're criticizing there. He mentioned the batman comics
I said from playing the batman game that I know that they actually tried to rehabilitate through that
So I want to know for sure
From people who actually know batman comics if it's true or not. There's obviously yeah, and like I said, I don't know a whole lot
Yeah, so so if it's just like what little I can claim from like what little I've read it was like
Seems like a shitty place, but that's
Yeah, I knew he was locking himself in here because he's saying like you should not be able to empathize with Thanos to empathize is
To understand and share the feelings of another
So as long as you at least understand or share at least one
Feeling that Thanos has you can empathize with him because humans can do that
That's a thing humans do you can't just go you shouldn't empathize with him unless you're well
This is where he's going to start folding in on himself. What if mentally ill people empathize with Thanos? What are you gonna say then?
You're gonna say they're wrong you're gonna say that they're not actually mentally ill like
You can empathize with people and still see them as villains and terrible people
This is why I really feel it's important to separate um subjectivity from objectivity when it comes to subjectivity
Empathizing with someone you're never going to catch
Me wolf or rags. I would assume
Uh arguing in our videos that you cannot empathize with this character. Okay, so don't
Be like yeah, there's i'm not going to tell you that you're watching the movie
Solution he's seen it firsthand on his planet
Thanos is a very complex character what he's doing from his point of view is a very positive thing
Thanos is the greatest villain in the history of marvel cinematic universe
I agree
I think so
He paints this as though it's a bad thing. He's trying to it's like i've exposed them with those clips and i'm like, yes
Yeah, that's that everything they said is true
Well, it's like we just disagree on this fundamental idea that we think empathizing with a villain can make for a great villain
And I guess he thinks that you shouldn't be able to empathize with a villain
It's hard
And all the horrible characters in there and you empathize with a lot of them even if they're bad
People someone said why are you judging mikey for it as if like we're being hypocritical?
Uh, i'm only countering his statement that you somehow shouldn't empathize with thanos
If he was saying
In my opinion, you should not empathize with thanos. I would still disagree with it because that's not an opinion. That's like
literally a statement about the ability to be able to empathize which is not something that could ever be judged to uh
Literally, everyone can empathize with anything. That's the premise of those words. You can't just go
I disagree with the definition of words now. That's my opinion
Um, but if he said he doesn't empathize with thanos, that's fine, of course anybody could both not and
Do empathize with him? I don't know. It's up to them
but um
It's just bizarre. Why would you even try and say that that you can't empathize with him?
Or i'm guessing this narrative is now getting regurgitated into the world
Settles my boy has quite the point
You don't got to go far to find people that believe that because humans like easy solutions to complex infrastructural problems
Is killing half of all sentient life an easy solution don't even why?
Why is he saying like this is a bad thing?
So he agrees that you can empathize with him then because people are right
Anything he shouldn't
I guess he's saying yeah, which is you can explore that I suppose
But stop pretending like this is some kind of like the opposite they didn't
Okay
So quick math seriously, this is one of the tonally bulked videos like this is a very strange
I don't know. Didn't he just do like the slow piano like half a minute ago or even less
The last jedi tone. I don't know. Why do you want me to fail?
Break if you deleted half of the world's population, it would get you back to about 1970 around full generation
Your parents would be fine. In other words 200 years ago. There would be less than one billion people on the planet
Thanos don't math good for thanos. Oh
But let me present you a counter argument
Thanos halved the population of a planet and it fixed their resources and ecosystem completely
Now i'm not saying it should have done that i'm saying that the film told us that's what happened
That is a fact in the universe that he's basing his logic off
Okay
It worked like
That's the that's the point right?
You don't have to prove to me that it's not a good plan because I never thought it was a good plan
But he's disgusting and evil
This is planned to make a dent and actually
Come off as a good plan and the way that a lot of poo poo heads and the internet are suggesting it would have value
What is this video man like what what a child
Confused as to what you tried it
He like opens earlier with talking about how like this is inappropriate for children because it's abuse and love and he had a panic attack
Because of the abuse or the depression he was going through at certain points. It's very adult and he's like you're a poo poo head
Okay
You you'd have to take the population also someone said but yeah, some people think it's a good plan though like that's an issue
That's not a bad thing from my position. It's it's open for discussion
Because what they say then is that we should do it or something like that
And then you have people talk to them about how they shouldn't do it and it's a conversation that happened because of the character portrayal
I mean it's only a bad thing
There's only a good plan because they think it will actually work
To give you a comparison plan, but it will be effective if anyone's watched game of thrones
Tywin Lannister makes a lot of very very immoral decisions arguably
uh in order to end the war that's how he justifies it and um
I actually would argue that he had a great fucking plan if you considered him the good guy the whole time which you could
He's very very uh
I guess you it would pragmatic would be the word he's trying to find the best easiest quickest way to win and he wants to
I believe very machiavellian. This is a this is a law thing. So i'm cheating, right? I accept that
I'm not using it as an argument for the show
I'm simply sharing that if you read the books and you knew the the history, uh, the kingdom considered the rule under
Aries the first or the mad king to be the best when he basically wasn't doing anything
And it was tywin's leadership as hand of the king that the kingdom was in its golden age essentially
Because tywin was one of like the best kings ever and he should have been on the iron throne from fucking start to finish
Because he's super intelligent. He just kept getting pushed into a position where he had to be
Essentially evil now. Um, there's loads to discuss on that. It's fucking fascinating
But then you've got people who are like thanos was a good guy. His plan would have worked
We should oh aries the second. Sorry, um, and then you know, you you have that discussion
I mean
If if there was a world leader who rose
And was powerful enough to enslave humanity and kill half of us and then let us go and he said the whole reason
He did was because he was influenced by
Um avengers infinity war then I mean, I suppose you could say that they're responsible for doing that but again
You would have to argue that that person was also insane that it was just waiting for the right movie to come across
That you would just do that with
you know
I mean
It's a bit it's a bit of a stretch more stuff suck it off tie with no, I love him
He's amazing back to around 2000 bce when there was around 72 million people on the planet or uh, let me get my calculator
Uh 0.972
Percent of what we have now and that would only buy you four thousand years before you encounter the same problem again
Because it isn't a solution. It's a reason. Do you guys follow what I'm saying though the whole like
It worked for him on that planet. So this is all irrelevant
Yeah, they they've established that it works
It works for him in this universe. It works. So we don't
We don't need this
Like this is all relevant to him. That's not a dunk on the character
Like literally if you just said all that to Thanos Thanos would be like
Yours you just criticize the statistics in some way shape or form
That's a dunk on the writing. It's arbitrarily
You don't get to talk shit about writing
You know, alien colonial marine value
I don't feel so good for the shock value. Okay, sure. You you've not proven that it's
It's broken yet. You've only given a perspective for why
Why a president for example or why a logical smart happy good leader?
Who's dealing with a difficulty in population overgrowth would choose not to do Thanos' plan which again
Thanos' villain is just putting it out
But i'm in the weeds now because playing is bad fine i'll accept it's dumb on purpose explanation because
Love this movie with all of your heart just understand why a lot of people felt left out in the cold by it
It is when you say a lot you mean like six or seven people
a lot of people were left out by the cold
I've never seen anyone who didn't like it. Actually. Yeah, I have yet
I mean I even have friends that like me are not huge marvel fans and all of them including me loved this
It's very approachable
Hereto for unseen in the comic book movie genre hell, I don't know if film has ever had a movie with stakes
Oh, yeah. Yeah, which for a lot of people what end of the world?
Yeah, end of the world. In fact, this is only half of the end of the world
Yeah, this isn't the end of like reality the stakes were bigger in avengers age of ultron technically speaking
There was gonna the ultron's plan was to wipe out humanity as a whole
So I just wish that thanos was played by gandalf. I don't know man face wizard man. I'll get you
Oh gosh patrick williams has got a new video called the storytelling language of star wars
Oh
Well, I mean i'll check it out, you know outside of the stream
But if it's like particularly bad we could cover it but surely he's not gonna fuck up again
It's probably he's over too
Well, you showed me that uh
That list of his where he was like the phantom menace is better than prevention of the sith. All right. Yeah, so
Uh, I don't know. I don't think you could possibly get dumber than patrick worms
We're unjustified all the same
Now that we have reached the top. Where do we go?
marvel can't really go all the way back to tony
I don't think you understand we went higher than this before and we went back down technically speaking because again age of ultron was
The end of the world avengers was arguably the end of the world too because there were invading forces that were gonna wash over humanity
That was the the hope
While this again is half of humanity gets wiped out the earth stays
Relatively unblown up if you know what I mean by comparison
The stakes feel higher which is exactly what they should be able to achieve which i'm impressed with they make it feel like it's much
More cataclysmic even though technically speaking. It's not actually as bad as the other two
Which is good
And that's okay. But remember why your audience was there in the first place
It stung because it rang so empty you're not gonna have to go far to find an adult who doesn't believe
That anything you did in this movie is gonna stick
Yeah, that's fine it depends on what they do
Like if they resurrect every single character you'll easily catch me on the criticism train absolutely
But you know, let's be real here. I'm not gonna expect them to kill spider-man permanently or black panther or dr. Strange
I expect them to have killed vision and loki for sure
I don't think we're gonna see them come back probably gonna kill off. Uh
Drax
Permanently. Yeah, that's there's a big chance that's gonna happen
I would expect that tony and cap are gonna die in the next one. By the way
That's a very strong assumption based on contract information, but we shall see
Is the if the question is will we see any repercussions from?
Infinity wall part one and two in the rest of the mcu the answer I think would most certainly be fucking yes
They'll just undo it the chorus
Refrains which sucks a little bit because now you've wield some very real trauma for a cheap. The antric
Like I how is that a cheap theater? He doesn't know that because there's no sequel yet
You can't know that for all we know every character dies in the next film for all, you know
Step or something because he has acolytes that follow him and spread his message with fervor, but
But why?
Who are these people?
One of them looks like a blizzard cut scene. Why do we I mean, yeah, I agree
But why do we need to know why they follow him?
I mean
Maybe they believe maybe they think like he does
Especially if he's got the proof to back it up like they're practically just soldiers. Do we need to know why?
Every one of the dog creatures follow this as well
I
Don't know like they believe they believe in this cause enough to fight for it
I mean the thing is man
They really take advantage of all the time they have in this film
But I guess we could have had scenes where the four the four acolytes sat down they went, you know
Following Thanos is great because when I was a boy
I really wanted to
I don't know. I want I wanted to rescue the world from itself and then they go. Yeah me too, man
Just like okay
You can do it
I just don't think it matters because these people were invented for this film to be
I guess antagonists like this
What's important is our heroes because they're the you know, and Thanos obviously, I don't know
I guess yeah just comes down to why do we need to know why these people are fighting with him as opposed to what?
He's doing it for
And and how far do we go with this?
How many more people do we need do we need to know every individual person in black panthers army?
Why each of them fight?
I don't know
Where do we go from here?
I guess we'll find out but it feels like we found a lot to do it's possible to eat too much chocolate
I feel like we spoiled our dinner. It's just too much like maybe don't build no way
I think i'm like most people i'm super excited for the next one. I'm ready
Oh, yeah, i'm so ready for more
I am so ready for more people could have just said like how do you raise the stakes after the avengers film?
Because we just had the world ending and now we don't and then you go age of ultron
How'd you raise the stakes again? Because we just had the world ending and there's no it's like here we go again
every single avengers movie is about
Well the movie wasn't for two about the world ending
Well, this is the thing the mcu's had the world end several times. So the funny thing is infinity war is not about the world ending
That's that's I can't believe he's like he's totally like skipped over that detail
Which is fascinating to me because it makes me feel like the rusos did a good job
They made it feel like the world was ending despite the fact that it wasn't
Yeah, the characters
We care about the characters and when characters are affected by maybe a lesser calamity. They're characters we care about
So it feels more important and impactful
Characters sympathies just spitballing here
And i'm sure marvel is already aware of this and they need to scale back down
It felt better when there was some yeah the characters and they probably will scale back down with you know
They did with ant-man and the wasp. They're probably going to do it the spider-man film
They'll probably do it the next doctor's range film
They'll probably do it the next black panther film because you're asking why the stakes are so high in the third avengers film
It's like well because that's pretty much capping out maximum investment for all the characters coming together
That's that's what we want to see
We don't want to see them all come together and then have to beat some guy who stole a lady's bag
It would be like oh, wow
They certainly showed him
As you were saying like half of that was about
A guy's relationship with his daughter
Yeah, these are very smaller stories. These are not the avengers films are not the time for small stories
Yeah, there's a lot of people a lot of stuff going on here
But you can still have on to on these wild rides like our pov character in this movie is sort of Thanos more to prove
That the villain could be the protagonist than anything
this is not the movie that this is not the piece of media that proves that the
Protagonist can't be or can be the villain. Yeah, i'm still confused on that part
Nothing else not to mention just having a point of view doesn't automatically make him the protagonist
Or even a protagonist
Someone just said constant escalation is terrible writing and it's like yeah
What does this guy want that we just like constantly go up and then he's like the second we reach maximum. It's over
I just be like no like go back down cosmos and then reality itself
Or like what and then what we're just done with movies. I have to ask him. Has he ever watched a tv show?
We don't have a hero. They peek at the end of the season then go back down people just repeatedly emerge from the shadows
I was i'm confused. What point was that? He earned like three seconds of sympathy in a scene
No, there were other
You have to watch civil war captains in america one and two because that means more once you get the context
There's the whole premise of the mcu, man
Uh
I will say I wish that there is more of bucky in infinity war or infinite. Yeah infinity war. I almost called it infinite warfare
Stop using infinite in your title and vision engage your sympathies
But then the inside of his skull gets scooped out like a cantaloupe
So i'm i'm assuming they they broke up. There's not a story. It's no he died. I don't I don't get this guy at all
I don't understand man
He's like cosmonaut variety hour and I hate him just as much
Not yeah, not a fan of that channel either, but like at least with mac and tosh. I understand exactly what he's up to
Same with downward thrust
But like with this this is all over the place
Not a narrative which is fine. What do you think he's trying to tell you in this video?
What would you guys try and summarize it as?
That the character of thanos is inherently flawed for the purposes of the film
I think that uh, I think he's trying to say that uh
You can't have relatable bad people because then that makes bad people more
I don't know. See my point was gonna be justified or something
I've got like eight different things that I think he was trying to say and they're all over the place like
Mental illness being portrayed in hollywood is a problem because they don't do it correctly. Um
Villains in comic books are often provided mental illness because they don't know how to generate villains correctly
Thanos himself is is is poorly written because he doesn't understand the statistics of his own plan not
Working out well enough. You know, I forgot to mention by the way
He was talking about our population and do you remember the planet that thanos attacked was like it looked kind of stone age-ish
They were all in like huts
And they're all in like cloth
clothing, so
you know like
What i'm trying to say is like it'll be different for every planet and that maybe thanos would argue
That for the few planets it won't function for it'll be worth it for the rest again
These there's so many things you could explore
The point is that we just needed to know why he was motivated to do it and the film gave us what we needed for that
um, but yeah, you know, that's that's just there's so many other things tied into this video that I
Don't really i'm just wondering how he's gonna cap it off because you know when you summarize at the end
You're like, so my point is the blah blah blah. So I just wonder which one of the 17 he's gonna pick
But that don't make you empire. Don't chase the misery. What is his problem with empire?
I think he likes it. I genuinely don't understand
What he's trying to get at with him. Don't chase the misery of empire
Maybe he's equating all negative emotion or low points in films to being bad
I
Think he's saying that empire started a trend where you put your heroes in a down place just before letting them win
And that everyone else is trying to copy empire and they're failing miserably because they're arbitrarily throwing their heroes into bad
I mean, it wasn't even empire that started that because I mean the two towers
Uh, the book was written in the 50s and that ended in a low place, too
Isn't it a part of like the hero's journey or whatever which is predating? Yeah
Yeah, I mean that that's centuries old that's that's nothing new you can go all the way
Someone just said if empire was a trend it started with Socrates
yeah, even before that the fuck was it the um
Oh god, the the epic of gilgamesh
With his relationship with the inkadoo, you know
He got it. It was empire
No, okay. It was empire
Star wars is the most original thing ever hit us with misery non-stop
You might as well be the walking dead
What so walking dead is on par with infinity war now. Okay
All right. Well, I quit watching the show and I tell you right now is
Well that was shit
Oh goodness me
Hello everyone
Ciaran lures david makatar sean steve matt has good zach marsh
And jim. All right. Well, that was that
Um, that was awful. That was garbage
Why is it that every time we do this jared is always the best highlight that we get out of it?
Yeah, how is it that he always manages to be the best?
He doesn't see himself better than you maybe that's true
He's trying to change your mind. He's trying to teach you something
Oh, yeah, I don't know he's a better teacher and mentor. How do you think he ranks among the others?
I mean they're all bad. Um
I put him right beneath mackintosh
Do you think that maybe at some point we should watch someone who's good and then try and be like
In a way that like trying to explain why they're doing well in terms of their explanation or something
It would be difficult because then we might like we'll just be like sitting here being like, yeah, we agree
Yeah, because we don't want to turn into a reaction
There just wouldn't be a whole lot of
Discussion like we do when we disagree with someone
Because this is the thing like it may come across that we just think there are no people that can make good video essays or something
I mean people recommend videos to us all the times
Did you want did you guys watch the thing? I posted on twitter the um, the three-minute video about iron man
No, I haven't oh we could I could put that on for you you might actually
Um, wait, I wish I think we should probably call it there. Well, actually, okay, wait, uh, we can break it up and end
With that one minute jared. Yeah, I was gonna say we'll do the jared video and then i'll send you guys the imm one
It's not necessarily a video essay. I was just gonna say it was just really good for the amount of time that it uh was used
You know, I got you the the they take advantage of their time like jared does, you know, it's very efficient
Yeah, so we'll end out on uh on jared. Here we go. He's celebrating his 300 subscribers and that bed
My god, how did you do it? Jared?
The thing he moved the fish tank back into that corner
And he moved his skateboard forward it's like he needs to make a new uh,
Uh room tour every other day
The room involves
Like hogwarts
What are you doing
I love the
Like one of my sexies too plushies, uh the giraffe and the moose
It's great to think the ninja turtle's hat with like the spikes coming out of it
Man he could he could cut something with those nipples right now like
Yeah, they are
He is he's gotta be cold in that room. You live in alaska? No, he lives in the south
Why
Why are you doing this
Why is this what you go with?
300 subs this is what the people what they want to see. I mean it'll be 400 if it's not already because we'll just
This is incredible
He is going to teach us the secrets of the world through interpretive dance
Why did he?
Feel like this was what he had to make
Is this only this this is just gonna end
Peace shout out to my homies teeny-hute ninja turtles
Yeah, and then it has spikes on it too
Uh
Well, um
That was a celebratory video because our little Jared is getting further and further now. So we're gonna spam his channel and chat again
Give him a subscription. He'll get covered. Um to take us back down from the essayists that we always get
If we can get him
If we can get him to 500 subs, I mean
Who knows? I'm kind of afraid to find out what he'll do if he gets 500 subs
Um, and yeah, so a lot of people have been asking about uh
What i'm gonna do with these streams because obviously I've only ever let one go public and it's because it was the patrick williams
Thing which was just so bad
I don't I genuinely think it'd be interesting to start ranking the videos we see how bad they are just to see what the worst
What was because the plot holds one like do you think we're ever gonna come across something worse than that?
Man, that's what that one's rough
Because he's genuinely just he's not he's I mean he isn't competent. Yeah, but he thinks he's actually
Trying to make a good
um
position against plot holes or or that you should ignore them and that logic doesn't matter and openly saying and ironically
That you can want you're watching films the wrong way
but yeah, so
The what i'm doing now is I start up a second channel
Maybe it depends on what we can actually do because you know
We've all we've all got our own schedules
But I mean we kind of do want to start doing this more often because it's a lot of fun
We can take recommendations for other essayists to check out
There's always going to be more jared, especially with promoting them. So i've i've got a second channel prepared
For this and it's it's it's i'll just spam it in chat. So
I'll it'll go on my discord as well
But wait remove any web address. It's probably oh, I can't post it as my fucking god damn it. Hang on
If I post as my other thingy i've not approved I didn't make myself as a thingy hang on
Um, yeah, so in a like a couple weeks i'll be
Doing the next episode of my podcast on my channel and we'll have act man
So I assume are we gonna are we gonna cover jared on that or oh, obviously
I mean, come on. We have to introduce everyone to jared
Is act man gonna react to that
I I don't really know we're gonna find out
My chat is frozen. It's still working for you guys
Yeah, it's running. Yeah
If the link is out then it's good because basically we've done two in this format. Anyway the one where we did. Um
Jared and I don't even remember I think it's downward thrust and then episode two is the williams thing and then this will be three and
Again, my chest is dead now, which is great. Um
the
Uh, we're kind of interested in finding a name for whatever we're doing here
If someone could come up with an actual decent name, we'd adopt it because
I don't fucking know what name we should use
Even I I don't think i've even uh, it's just just
Any ideas, uh open to to even you we can actually be the sober nobles
It doesn't that that already works if you actually do the drug of hez that you just be like why?
Um, but yeah, so all these streams will go on that channel
and uh
video response theory
Yiffin mall stream. Oh, I like I like video response theory. Actually, it's not bad
I like video response theory. I'm gonna put that in the suggestion box video furries skull
That sounds really furries one skull. I don't think that's gonna work
Two and a half furries, oh
Does it have to be about fear Jared's judgment Jared response fears
Call it natural selection
Hot skulls and oh, nah, we can't do that one
Stop-o-counsel numb skulls adventures of scully and two fairies
anyways guys theory
The jared fan club
Uh unofficial jared fan club sponsored by xbox
watching movies right
I should call it the right opinions. Oh, is that I think that's church of jared
I'm putting that up there
A stream of dogs and starfighters that's too long two fangs one skull. No, that's it. That's no better
Two eons of one friend no
Oh
Side quests and knife fights
The church of critics jaredology
Film torture the worst of jared joe paulson
Oh, that's a that's a good jaredi buddie podcast could totally be it Jaredism
Praise be to jared chan jared christ the wolf pack furry genesis
Bad analysis plot holers
if in time
Jared and shit the objectivists i'm pretty sure being an objectivist is an actual like thing. Like that's not an Iran thing. Yeah
Plot molars
Upward motion
Upward motion every frame of pain. I actually like that because of the every
Baller in the wolves angry white
Jared souls three actually call it like the toxic fandom
Like just to fucking run with it, but I don't know if that's too much
the last podcast
Jaredward motion
the jared cinematic universe
Two furries one plot hole guys can't do this one. They really like that one
Three angry white men the angry men the ineosarchisian experience
That is functional family. Oh, yeah, I was gonna say the description if you guys haven't yet is linked to toxic man babies
Uh linked to wolf and rags channels, which you should subscribe to i'm assuming you already have because this is essentially like just
How could you not at this point considering this is always just me me me and these two ripping into videos
We will 11 minutes in five hours
Well, that's the podcast fellowship of the plot
White privilege
Yeah, we'll um
I'll probably I'll probably stop there. Um, we've it's been a lot of fun
Possibly. What do you guys reckon on the feasibility of it being weekly? Would that be possible or do you think that's too much?
I could do that. I could do that. All right, it might it might be weekly. Okay, no promises
And we'll we'll the next time we do this
We'll do another round of trying to get ideas for for names of the podcast. I got five up so far that are
You know
Relatively entertaining and I guess we'll see more but um, there are two episodes you can always look at that are up on the channel
I posted it's called moolah
It's just going to be my second channel and there's i'm literally using a piece of fan art right now as the icon because i've got
Like it's not planned at all. It's just a place where I can drop it until
It's developed. But um made this happen
He did he really did he brought us together. Jared is beautiful. And um, yeah
So thank you all for watching and of course, thank you guys for hanging out
It's been always
A pleasure always fall always every single time or at least it's fun when jared comes on otherwise
Otherwise, it just has being frustrated at other people
And help incompetent they are but just goodbye everybody have fun
I don't know
Goodbye, let's be done. Yeah
