I
In 1989, a sex researcher named Ray Blanchard published a controversial, provocative, politically
incorrect theory claiming that trans women are not, as custom has it, essentially female
souls accidentally born into male bodies.
Instead, he claimed, they are men of two types, gay men who love straight men, and straight
men who love themselves.
For the latter condition, Blanchard coined the term autogynephilia.
New Greek for love of oneself as a woman.
It's a theory that contradicts what almost all trans women say and believe about themselves,
and affirms the common prejudice that trans people are really just sex perverts, which,
okay, some of us are, but not for the reasons Blanchard said.
One, just what the hell do I think I'm doing?
Rest assured, in this video I am going to argue that Blanchard's theory is false, but
a lot of trans women are probably nervously wondering why I'm using my platform to potentially
increase awareness of a sinister fringe theory that only adds to the stigma we all already
face.
After all, autogynephilia gives scientific legitimacy to our culture's most twisted
misrepresentations of trans women.
Who do you fuck with?
So it's understandable that to a lot of trans women, the prospect of this concept
gaining cultural traction is pretty terrifying.
However, I respond that, as one of YouTube's leading B-list transsexuals, I've had several
conversations with academics and journalists where it becomes clear that they believe in
Blanchard's theory, even if the cowards won't admit it to my face.
So as I see it, the damage is already done, what's needed now is an accessible, convincing
refutation of the theory.
I hope this video will accomplish three things.
1.
Persuasively argue that the wrong theory is wrong.
2.
Account for how a wrong theory became so influential.
3.
Move beyond some of the platitudes about trans people and open up a deeper discussion about
what it really means to be transgender.
Socrates?
You know the drill.
2.
Blanchard's Typology
The mainstream scientific view, endorsed by the World Professional Association for Transgender
Health, the DSM-5, and most practicing clinicians, is that the primary reason trans people trans
transition is to alleviate gender dysphoria.
Gender dysphoria is a state of social, emotional, anatomical, sexual, spiritual, and sartorial
angst relating to one's assigned birth sex, which is mostly relieved by socially and medically
transitioning to the gender of one's psychological identity.
This is what motivated me to transition, and I endorse the mainstream scientific view.
However, sex researcher Blanchard has a different theory.
According to Blanchard, trans women are driven to transition primarily by sexual motivations.
He didn't really bother to think about trans men or non-binary people, so you all
are excused.
You can just grab a beer and laugh it up.
Blanchard claims that trans women can be divided into two types of men, and yeah, I know, just
hold your objections for the end.
The first type are the homosexual transsexuals.
These gay boys cannot get enough dick, and who can blame them?
Essentially, the homosexual transsexuals are naturally effeminate gay men who transition
because 1.
1.
They're more disgusting of them as women than as very effeminate men, and 2.
Becoming women is a good sexual strategy for them since they do better as women in the
heterosexual dating market than as male femmes in the mask-for-mask dominated gay scene.
The second type of trans women are the autogynephilic transsexuals.
These inscrutable perverts can apparently get off just by looking in the mirror.
Blanchard describes autogynephiles as straight, bi, or self-avowed asexual men.
It doesn't really matter, because their primary sexual orientation is asexuality.
It's misdirected inward, leading to paraphilic sexual arousal at the thought of being or becoming
women, which is their true motivation to transition.
Now I'm going to argue that this theory is wrong, but first I want to acknowledge
that there does seem to be some observational validity to the claim that trans women tend
to fall into one of two clusters of correlated traits.
I'll replace the stigmatizing terms homosexual transsexual and autogynephile with more neutral
language, let's say cluster A and cluster B. Cluster A trans women are mostly androphilic,
attracted to men.
They transition relatively early in life and are very effeminate as children.
Cluster B trans women are mostly gynephilic, attracted to women, transition relatively
later in life, and have outwardly boyish childhoods.
When I first thought about this typology, it initially seemed pretty valid.
I went through the mental list of trans women I know, and found I could pretty easily sort
them.
Cluster A, cluster A, cluster B, cluster B. But as I've thought about it more, it's
partially unraveled.
Without even leaving my circle of acquaintances, I can think of a trans woman who falls into
one of two clusters.
A trans woman who followed all the cluster A patterns but now dates women, and a trans
woman who followed all the cluster B patterns but now exclusively dates men.
So while I think there may really be two genuine trends here, I interpret them merely as correlation
clusters that get fuzzy around the edges.
Blanchard, however, takes homosexual transsexuals and autogynephiles to be two sharply distinct
types, with two completely different psychosexual motivations to transition.
And this is what I strongly disagree with, the notion that male homosexuals' strategy,
or autogynephilic lust, is the same.
Transsexuals are the primary motivations to transition, and I have a lot of backup
here since trans women almost universally reject this characterization of their experience.
Now you'd think that'd be a major problem for the theory, but fortunately Blanchard
has an airtight response to that, namely that trans women who disagree with him are fucking
liars.
I mean that's really the scientific ideal, isn't it?
A theory that can't be falsified.
It's perfect.
3.
The Man Who Would Be Queen
3.
The Man Who Would Be Queen
Blanchard's theory likely would have been glanced at by a handful of sexologists before
fading into the endless sea of forgotten academic publications had it not been given
a major publicity boost by J. Michael Bailey, a Northwestern psychology professor who endorsed
Blanchard's theory in a 2003 pop science book titled The Man Who Would Be Queen.
Great cover, Bailey.
Very controversial, very provocative, very politically incorrect.
I have been triggered.
Well done.
Now Bailey, I read your book, which, considering how much I enjoy your cream, is a very controversial,
very provocative, very politically incorrect, I have been triggered.
Well done.
The Man Who Would Be Queen was just amazingly bad.
The Man Who Would Be Queen is a frightening book for trans women because it's acutely
transphobic but also kind of vivid and well written, and it introduced a wide audience
to Blanchard's typology.
The first two parts of the book describe homosexual transsexuals, including Bailey's and his
male research assistant's observations that they're super fuckable and natural-born sex
workers.
I start upstairs to get the panoramic view and I see Kim for the first time on the stairs
dancing, posing.
She is spectacular.
She is spectacular.
She is spectacular.
Exotic.
I find out later that she is from Belize.
And sexy.
Her body is incredibly curvaceous, which is a clue that it may not be natural.
And I notice a very subtle and not unattractive angularity of the face, which is also not clearly
diagnostic on this tall siren.
It is difficult to avoid viewing Kim from two perspectives.
As a researcher.
But also as a single heterosexual man.
Wow Bailey, great science writing.
When he's done drooling all over the homosexual transsexuals, Bailey moves on to the autogynephilic
transsexuals, focusing almost entirely on a single case study of a trans woman he calls
Cher, whose backstory is a stomach-churning nightmare of autoerotic mania and transvestic
masturbation.
Bailey describes how Cher made videos of herself wearing female masks and vaginal prostheses,
while receiving anal sex from a sex worker.
Bailey says she has been able to get her anal sex from a sex robot of her own construction,
all to the accompaniment of a Donna Summers album and the moaning audio from a porno film.
It honestly sounds like something I would do in a video as a joke.
So well done Bailey, you've found an honest-to-god pervert.
And look, as a performance artist, I love the sex robot.
I admire it, I want it in my life.
But as a transsexual, I mean, Bailey, this has nothing to do with being trans.
You just found a person who built a sex robot.
That's not helpful.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I mean, Bailey, this has nothing to do with being trans.
You just found a- You just found a person who built a sex robot!
That's not how Bailey sees it, though.
He upholds Cher as an exemplary case of an autogynephiliac transsexual, claiming that
Cher's sexual fetishism is typical of the motivations of all trans women who aren't
exclusively attracted to men.
So Bailey's telling is that autogynephiles are these unfeminine male masturbators showing
up to gender clinics with bogus stories of how they always knew they
women in order to get genital reassignment surgery to satisfy their paraphilia.
Now what's striking about this to me is even for a defense of Blanchard's theory,
Bailey's account is more lurid and grotesque than it needs to be.
Bailey likes to think of himself as a dangerous libertine philosopher,
pursuing the light of truth wherever it may lead,
unrestrained by conventional morality and political correctness alike.
You're so filthy.
But what does the unrestrained pursuit of truth look like?
What objective methodologies does Bailey employ?
Well, for the most part, it seems like he just goes to gay bars in Chicago
and chats up trans women, turning these stories into case studies for his book.
Sounds like an awful lot of fun for scientific research.
You need a research assistant, Bailey?
The Man Who Would Be Queen is filled with sentences like,
There is no way to say this as sensitively as I would prefer, so I'll just go ahead.
All right, you edgy fuck, let's hear it.
Most homosexual transsexuals are
most
much better looking than most autogynephilic transsexuals.
We appreciate the feedback, Bailey, we really do.
But is this science?
It's effectively a straight cis man announcing his discovery
that young straight chicks are hotter than middle-aged lesbians
and trying to pass it off as a valid empirical observation.
And like the pop science cishet men have written over the past century
regarding the nature of females and homosexuals,
their observations about trans women are seriously lacking some vital perspectives.
This is what
we postmodernists mean when we complain that science often privileges a white,
cishet male perspective.
It's not that I hate men or male sexuality,
I just hate that the male sexual perspective is so powerful that it gets to call itself science.
It's not that there is no objective truth,
it's that this represents a very narrow window on it.
Wouldn't anyone care to hear a different perspective?
Well, how about mine?
Four.
My perspective.
From my perspective, Michael,
Bailey is a lecherous edgelord.
He's a man who, when I was a student at Northwestern,
was mostly famous for the fucksaw incident.
Google it.
Of course, that doesn't mean that the fundamental claims of his book aren't true.
Even if we could prove that Bailey gets together every weekend with Blanchard
to sacrifice a trans baby to Beelzebub,
it would still have no bearing on the scientific correctness of the theory,
which might still be true.
The problem is, it isn't true,
which I'll argue at length in a moment.
But first, it's worth noting that the theory has gained acceptance,
among a non-trivial number of academics and journalists.
Largely because, one,
it's often presented as the only supposedly scientific alternative
to mushy platitudes about women born in men's bodies,
and two,
many trans women have reacted to Bailey and Blanchard
with extreme vitriol and personal attacks,
resulting in the widespread perception that a bunch of triggered PC cucks
are throwing a narcissistic male-entitlement temper tantrum
because Bailey and Blanchard accurately call them out as paraphilic fetishists.
In her 2015 book, Galileo's Middle Finger,
bioethicist Alice Drager championed Bailey as the undeserving victim
of a hysterical SJW lynch mob.
But she gets so caught up in exonerating Bailey
of the personal accusations against him,
and in telling a bigger story about academic freedom
and how scientists are being silenced by PC cucks,
that she doesn't bother to check how good Bailey's science really is,
and ends up affirming the autogynephilia theory herself.
Now I'm certainly not gonna deny that trans people on the internet
can sometimes behave like a bit of an angry mob.
In fact, I may be on the receiving end
of one of those myself in about, oh, 20 minutes,
depending on how this video is received.
But there's not exactly a shortage of sleazy passive aggression
from the Blanchard and Bailey camp either.
Blanchard is known to seek out and comment on pornography made by his detractors,
and Drager is an advocate for the narcissistic rage theory
of trans backlash against Bailey.
Remember, according to autogynephilia theory,
many trans women are erotically fixated on themselves,
from which a dishonest person can make a conceptual leap
to saying that they're narcissists,
and hence,
any trans woman who raises her voice in this conversation
is accused of exhibiting narcissistic rage emanating from her wounded male ego.
Furthermore, like so many other professors in recent academic freedom controversies,
Blanchard and Bailey being ruthlessly silenced by PC cucks
has not really interfered with their academic careers,
nor their continued authority to misrepresent people with less power than them.
This is of course assuming that autogynephilia really is a misrepresentation of trans women,
and that's really the crux of this whole drama, isn't it?
So let's just leave the drama behind and dive right into that question,
pursuing the pure light of truth,
as we always do on this channel,
relying only on the facts,
the figures,
the scientific studies.
Just kidding.
If you really want to read a scientific argument against autogynephilia,
read Julia Serrano's article,
The Case Against Autogynephilia,
which pretty much sums it up.
Because I know that you didn't click on this video because you wanted to hear about science,
you came here because you wanted filth,
and I'll give you filth, Bailey.
I know that's what you want,
and I wanna give you what you want.
I wanna give it all up for you.
5. The False Dichotomy
Filth is coming, don't worry,
but before we get there there's one more thing we need to discuss.
Advocates of Blanchard's theory pretty much unanimously introduce it
as if it were the only possible alternative to what's called
The Feminine Essence Theory.
The Feminine Essence Theory says that trans women are female souls and male bodies,
that we are women from birth to death,
path, and that transition is merely an effort to make our accidental exterior match our
essential interior.
People like Draeger will tell you that TRANSACTIVISTS dogmatically adhere to this theory, and that
anyone who challenges it will be pursued by a ruthless witch hunt.
And of course, the only way to challenge it, we're told, is to defer to Blanchard's
typology of homosexual and autogynephilic transsexuals.
Now I object to this framing of the discussion, because I don't believe in Blanchard's
typology or the feminine essence theory.
There is no feminine singularity that made me a woman from birth.
I wasn't born a woman.
I was born a fucking baby, just like everyone else.
There's no such thing as a feminine essence or a masculine essence.
There's only biology, habitual behavior, and the way society responds to you, all of which
can be changed quite a lot, and all of which are currently changing for me.
Now there is an emotional appeal to the feminine essence theory.
I think most people have gender essentialist intuition.
And I admit I do feel, on some level, that I'm supposed to be a woman by nature.
And in a sense that may be true.
I don't think I chose to be trans, and it seems likely that there's something inherent
in my biology or psychology that led me to transition.
But that's not quite the same thing as essential womanhood, which intellectually I don't
think makes sense.
I think it's heartwarming gibberish.
But there is also, I think, a legitimate role in the discourse for heartwarming gibberish.
Sometimes you have to explain what it means to be trans.
To a person who believes that dogs go to heaven.
And in most circumstances, saying I'm a female soul in a male body gets the point across.
Not all language is philosophical.
It's a lot easier to explain what being trans is in essentialist terms.
To explain it without gender essentialism requires a whole complicated philosophical
discussion that most people simply aren't up to having.
But the useful platitudes become a problem when more analytically-minded people start
putting these things under the microscope.
And then they end up concluding that trans people are just fetishists who are telling
lies about themselves.
So you're probably wondering, if I'm not a fetishist, and not essentially a woman,
then why am I transitioning?
Well, I keep saying this, but dysphoria really was the primary reason.
And shortly before I transitioned, I made a whole video about that, if you're curious.
You have to keep in mind that transitioning is not just for the bedroom.
When you decide you're going to live as a woman, you have to do that at the grocery
store and on airplanes and at Thanksgiving dinner with your family.
You have to do that at the grocery store and on airplanes and at Thanksgiving dinner with
your family.
You have to do that at the grocery store and on airplanes and at Thanksgiving dinner
with your family, if you even still have a family.
It's kind of hard for me to imagine why someone would do that just to gratify a masturbatory
urge.
That said, is there some sexual aspect of being transgender?
Well of course there goddamn is, how could an adult decide to switch genders without
there being some connection to sexuality?
The problem is, autogynephilia is not a good description of that connection in most cases,
and it certainly isn't in my case.
But I'm a 29-year-old transsexual with a history of dating women and cross-dressing
in erotic situations, no less.
According to Blanchard's theory, I'm therefore an autogynephile.
It seems that I have some explaining to do.
Well, here's where the filth comes in.
6.
Contrapoints in erotic life
Come one, come all to the gender circus with your host Natalie.
Step right up, you filthy freaks.
One of the reasons it's difficult for trans women to refute Blanchard's theory is that
even arguing against it from your own experience is incredibly humiliating and degrading and
invalidating.
Unfortunately, I have no sense of self-respect or dignity whatsoever, so I'm willing to take
one for the team here.
Get your clipboards out, gentlemen!
I want to make this as easy as possible for the psychoanalysts at home.
I was born in 1988.
As a small child, I was not especially feminine nor especially masculine.
I was not interested in sports, and was just kind of physically inept.
My main childhood interest was music, and I learned several instruments.
In early adolescence, I was misdiagnosed with OCD.
The primary symptoms being spending too much time in the shower, and spending too much
time styling my hair.
My sexual development was kind of late.
I never masturbated till I was 15.
And I didn't fantasize about having sex with women, or with men, or even about becoming
a woman.
My fantasies were kind of platonic, almost.
I would sort of fantasize about women, but in a very abstract kind of way.
An early romantic disappointment involved my realization that women would never be a
woman.
They would be attracted to me in the same way that I was attracted to them.
In my late teens and early twenties, I was a long-haired, smooth-chested androgyne, which
suited me well.
It was around then that I first cross-dressed, when a woman I was seeing asked if she could
dress me up in her clothes, and do my makeup.
God yes, I said.
Throughout my twenties, I was on and off in relationships where there was this feminization
dynamic.
More women are into feminizing boys than you might think.
When I was feminized, it would just be me.
When I was feminized, we would just make out and not do anything penetrative, but just
sort of little proto-lesbian things, you know?
Now some women I was with were not into that, and some would practically lock their underwear
drawers when they found out I had done it in the past.
There was one period where I cut my hair short and quit that altogether, but it didn't last
more than a couple years.
When I had regular heterosexual sex, it was like my soul had to leave my body in order
for me to get the poison out, which is how I thought of it.
The cross-dressing was never a solo or a masturbatory activity.
There was always a partner, or sometimes several partners.
Bailey, are you paying attention to this?
This is for you.
What I liked about it was the way that dressing like a woman changed the way partners interacted
with my body, how they would kind of treat me like a woman.
I fully acknowledge that a lot of the feminization was pretty fetishistic.
There was a lot of short dresses and thigh highs, and occasionally also a BDSM submissive
aspect.
But over time, I realized that the fetish aspect wasn't really what I liked about it.
I didn't like it.
I didn't like it.
I didn't like it.
I didn't like it.
I didn't like it.
I didn't like it.
It wasn't humiliating for me to be feminized.
It was affirming.
And one day, I kind of realized that I didn't want to be feminized at all.
I wanted to be feminine.
In my mid-twenties, I first started really paying attention to trans women and thinking
about transitioning myself, but I thought that, since I didn't feel like a woman, that
I never would, and I thought that I would never pass and that I would just be a hideous
parody of womanhood.
Then about a year ago, thanks to this amazing online queer community that we have now, I
started developing more positive thinking about this.
I've always looked a little bit younger than my age, but last year I also started noticing
the first signs that I was going to age into the body of an older man, and that triggered
really intense gender dysphoria.
At the same time, I realized that I would have to transition to have any hope of a genuinely
fulfilling sex life.
And at that point, the need to transition felt so urgent that I could not wait.
So I got internet hormones from the Republic of Vanuatu, and I started taking those in
August until I could get a prescription from an informed consent clinic.
And since then, my life has drastically changed.
I live as a woman full-time now, and most of the changes aren't sexual, but the hormones
certainly do have sexual effects.
I now find myself attracted to both women and men, and the mere visual image of a woman
no longer turns me on the way it did.
Instead, I need there to be a certain kind of interpersonal connection.
I don't masturbate at all, and I haven't come in months.
Someone, please fuck me.
I guess the critical thing is that I've been wearing women's clothes, my clothes, for seven
consecutive months, and I have been turned on by it for zero percent of the time.
So the idea that I'm some kind of transvestite fetishist is ridiculous.
And I'm not turned on by the mere idea of having a female body either.
I mean, when there's developments, I'll check it out.
But I'm not like, oh yeah, I have tits now, that's so hot.
I mean, it's kind of hot.
But it's more about other people being into it than it is about me.
Being into it.
So as always, my sex drive is directed outward at other people.
The sexual aspect of my transsexuality is not about the target of lust being directed
inward.
It's about me wanting my sexual encounters to occur from the standpoint of a female body.
Or, you know, at least as close as I can get.
And since I started hormones, it's about my sexual desires coming from this psychologically
female place of vague bisexual interest activated by interpersonal connection.
Rather than being a woman.
Rather than intense, object-oriented male lust.
So that's my attempt to describe my sexual history without resorting to politically correct
cuckoldry or trans ideology.
Now I've read enough Blanchard to know that this description in no way lets me off the
hook for autogynephilia.
In fact, I'm what Blanchard would call a classic case of pseudobisexual behavioral autogynephilia.
Pseudobisexual because of course all trans women's experiences are lies, and because,
according to Blanchard, I only like guys because being filled up with their dicks makes
me feel like a girl, which is what I'm really into.
And behavioral because Blanchard describes different kinds of autogynephilia, like anatomic,
transvestic, behavioral, and physiological, according to what you supposedly fetishize.
And I'm turned on by sexually behaving like a woman, rather than simply wearing female
clothes or having female anatomy.
And I mean, okay, you can slap a Greek word on anything and make it sound scary, fake,
and pathological.
But I think this isn't a sense of reality.
It's an especially unfair way to characterize my experience, and here's why.
7.
Autophilia in general
I'm guessing that most people would be pretty reluctant to admit that they take any kind
of sexual interest in their own bodies.
It's sort of like admitting that you enjoy your own body odor.
Ew.
But how unusual is it to check yourself out?
To take some sexual interest in the sight or touch of your own body?
I've noticed that cis men seem to really like their own penises.
And taking pictures of their penises and sending them to other people.
Does that make them autoandrophiles?
Are they behavioral autophallophiles?
I can make up Greek words too, Blanchard.
I know a cis woman who, having just bought some expensive lingerie, told me,
It's not for men, it's for me.
What does that mean?
It means she enjoyed wearing sexy lingerie under her clothes because it made her feel
hot.
Is that cisvestic autogynephilia?
Likewise.
I used to date cis women, I know what they do, and I can tell you that women touching
their own breasts during sex or while masturbating is not at all uncommon.
Is that anatomical autogynephilia?
Twitter user Nathan of Oz pointed out that in the October 2017 issue of Cosmo, an article
on self-love tips recommends that its apparently cis female readers try stroking their own
feet or running a feather over their skin as a prelude to kneeling in front of a full-length
mirror and rubbing one out.
Possibly while squatting on a dildo.
Can you imagine the level of paraphilic male fetishism that would be read into this if
it was written by a trans woman?
I mean it's one step away from filming yourself fucking a sex robot.
And okay, Cosmo's sex advice is often ludicrous, but the point is, it seems like it's only
when it comes to trans women that we feel the need to whip out the suffix "-philia".
It seems what's going on here is a lot of pathologizing of normal female sexuality when
it exists in trans women.
But of course that raises the question, what is transphilia?
What is transphilia?
What is normal female sexuality?
8.
Normal Female Sexuality Switching from male to female hormones causes
your sex drive to be completely obliterated and then regrown in new form, which came as
more of a relief to me than I expected.
I don't think I realized the extent to which my own sexuality felt like a demonic possession
or alien infection until I was free of it, thank god.
When I had male hormones in me I needed to have an orgasm like every day, I was turned
on mainly by visual arousal cues, I was at a Kinsey 1 relative to my birth sex, and I
had a couple mild, typical, straight guy paraphilic kinks, no, not autogynephilia.
On female hormones I initially had no sex drive at all, but have started developing
very different patterns of arousal.
For instance, I never need to have an orgasm, I'm turned on mainly by interpersonal cues
like intimate physical contact or close emotional moments, I'm at around a 70-30 attraction
to women vs men.
And the paraphilic kinks have vanished without a trace.
Oh by the way, for the pharmacologists at home, this is 6mg estradiol and 200mg spironolactone
daily.
So my interpretation of all this is that I have what is a pretty typical female sexuality,
at least for a girl who's into girls.
I don't feel like I have some essentially male, pseudo-bisexual, behavioral autogynephilia.
One of the reasons why Blanchard has to come up with elaborate terminology like this is
he takes as foundational the presupposition that trans women are psychologically more like
cis men than cis women.
His studies therefore lack a cis female control group, meaning he didn't bother to apply
his autogynephilia survey to cis women.
But if he had, as Charles Moser did in 2009, he might have found that many of them were
classified as autogynephilic.
Blanchard's insistence on classifying trans women's sexuality as a variant on male sexuality
makes it seem paraphilic and unusual that trans women want to have sex as women.
But what do cis women want to have sex as?
Walruses?
I mean, no judgements.
This also explains his claim that non-exclusively androphilic trans women are pseudo-bisexual
because their attraction to men does not resemble gay male attraction to men.
The idea is that these trans women's attraction to men is not based on raw physical lust,
so it is therefore unlike gay male attraction to men, and is therefore pseudo.
That is, it's really an autogynephilic fantasy where the man is just a prop.
But what about straight cis women's attraction to men?
Is that based on raw physical lust for the male body?
I mean, sometimes it probably is, and I'm not a cis woman so I can't really say.
But I kind of suspect that cis female heterosexuality is not best described as raw physical lust
for the male body.
That is, I suspect it's quite different from cis male homosexuality, if I may risk
painting with broad strokes.
Take the case of Playgirl magazine, which at its peak published feminist articles alongside
Naked Hunks but never had the circulation of a trans woman.
It's not a real thing.
It's more of a representation of its male counterpart, and later on ended up just being
read by gay men.
From the perspective of female sexuality, I mean, men's bodies are nice, they have
great hands, great abs, great this part, it's all great.
But it's not that great.
And if you read pornography written by women, and notice that it's usually written and
not photographed, you don't find a predominant focus on vivid descriptions of male bodies.
Like in Fifty Shades of Grey, which I read for research purposes, there's some description
of male bodies, but it's not the main thing by any means.
There's a lot more sentences like,
To the right is an imposing U-shaped sofa that could seat ten adults comfortably.
It faces a state-of-the-art stainless steel, or maybe platinum for all I know.
Modern fireplace.
Near the kitchen area, in front of the glass wall, is a dining table surrounded by sixteen
chairs.
And tucked in the corner is a full-sized, shiny black grand piano.
Here, he hands me a glass of wine.
Even the glasses are rich, heavy, contemporary crystal.
It's like a Crate and Barrel catalog.
I'm getting so wet.
Christian is established as a man of good taste, as evinced by his contemporary crystal,
his playing Bach at the piano, and that's hot, because it's sexy to be wanted by someone
who's qualified.
It's not enough to be whistled at by a cat caller, they have no discernment.
I mean, they whistle at anything that looks vaguely female.
They whistle at me.
And I don't want to be whistled at by the kind of person who would whistle at me.
I don't want to be whistled at by the kind of person who would whistle at me.
I don't want to be whistled at by the kind of person who would whistle at me.
I don't want to be whistled at by the kind of person who would whistle at me.
You want to be wanted by someone who, with their exquisite and discriminating taste,
selects you, the protagonist.
This is not a story about Christian's rippling abs and his tight buns.
It's not a story about wanting a man.
It's a story about being wanted by a man.
This is how the whole romance genre works.
You emotionally identify with the female protagonist, then you meet the sexy bad boy who's like
a pirate or the CEO of Business Incorporated, and then the hot part is just how badly this
guy wants you.
The protagonist, usually singling her out over other more qualified women, and eventually
giving up everything he loves to settle down and make babies with her.
And a lot of these stories are kind of silly.
They conflate female sexuality with women's economic dependence on men in a way that's
really problematic, but I fundamentally resonate with the wish to be wanted.
I want other people to think I'm sexy and want to fuck me, you know?
It makes me feel like I have value, and it fills up the void inside.
Is that so wrong?
9.
Female Vanity
The art critic John Berger wrote in his book Ways of Seeing about the European oil painting
trope of depainting a nude woman with a mirror and calling the painting vanity.
The mirror was often used as a symbol of the vanity of woman.
The moralizing, however, was mostly hypocritical.
You painted a naked woman because you enjoyed looking at her.
You put a mirror in her hand and you called the painting vanity, thus morally condemning
the woman whose nakedness you despise.
9.
Female Vanity
The real function of the mirror was otherwise.
It was to make the woman connive in treating herself as, first and foremost, a sight.
The notion of the vanity of woman is a misogynistic trope that originates in male projection.
It is the assumption that women enjoy looking at themselves in the same way that men enjoy
looking at them, and are hence complicit in their own objectification.
I think the concept of the autogynephilic transsexual woman is a combination of this
trope with a homophobic trope.
Misogyny casts women as narcissistic, vain, in love with themselves, and homophobia casts
queer men as hypersexual perverts.
The autogynephile is the ultimate combination of the two, the hypersexual pervert vainly
in love with the image of himself as a woman.
10.
Autogynephilia is a misogynistic trope that originates in the image of a woman.
It is a misogynistic trope that originates in the image of a woman.
10.
Autogynephilia is the ultimate combination of the two, the autogynephilia and the paraphilia
acceptance.
So this whole video I've been treating autogynephilia kind of like an accusation, from which I have
to exonerate myself.
And I think it's justifiable considering I'm objecting to misrepresentation, but some people
might wonder isn't this whole conversation getting kind of kink-shame-y, like, is autogynephilia
so wrong?
Well, no, it's not.
It's fine.
There definitely are men who get turned on by wearing women's clothes or thinking about
having a female body, and as paraphilias go, this is very harmless, and I don't think it's
anything to be ashamed of. But the question of whether genuinely autogynephilic trans women
exist is more complicated. The reason most trans women consider the label autogynephilia to be such
a stigma is that, as Blanchard says, women do not get turned on merely by the thought of being women.
Now as I've discussed, the problem with Blanchard is he overextends the concept of autogynephilia
to cover pretty much any sexual feeling a cluster B trans woman can have. But I'm actually inclined
to agree with him that being turned on merely by the thought of being a woman is a fundamentally
non-female state of mind, and one that feels quite foreign to me. So a lot of trans women,
I guess including me, have the idea that you can't be both a woman and an autogynephile,
hence the offense we take to being characterized in this way. However, things get messier when
you look into this some more. Are there some genuinely autogynephilic transsexuals?
Well, at first glance, the answer is yes. I mean, there's always one, isn't there?
In this case, though,
one is Anne Lawrence, a disciple of Blanchard and self-identified autogynephilic transsexual.
From 1998 to 2011, Lawrence collected 249 anonymous accounts of autogynephilia over the internet
and published them in her 2012 book, Men Trapped in Men's Bodies. Great title, Anne. Very provocative,
very controversial, very politically incorrect. I have been triggered. Well done. What is this
cover, though? Come on, Anne. Get a statue of hermaphroditus or something on there.
So this book is filled with a lot of stuff. It's a lot of stuff. It's a lot of stuff.
It's a lot of the stories of trans women who have a past or present of pretty autogynephilia-like
fantasy and behavior. So what do we make of that? Well, a lot of this stuff, like fantasies of being
women or having sex as women or arousal during cross-dressing, are what the trans community
has destigmatizingly termed cross-sex gender fantasy. And among trans women, particularly
prior to transition, this kind of thing is pretty common. You'll see it all over the place on trans
subreddits. There's a blog called CrossDreamers devoted to it. There's a blog called CrossDreamers
devoted to it. It's been written about by Zinnia Jones and Giulia Serrano. So within the trans
community, this isn't even controversial. It's not provocative. It's not politically incorrect.
But how do we make sense of this? Well, my thinking is that it's pretty hard to experience
genuine female sexuality when you've still got the evil magic of testosterone in your system.
So you've got to get that out, and then this paraphilic stuff tends to go away. But how is
this any different from Blanchard's theory of autogynephilia? Well, basically, it comes down to
this. Blanchard's theory claims that cross-dressing is a form of sexism. It's a form of sexism. It's a
gender fantasy or arousal is causal and essential. In this theory, if you're an autogynephilic
transsexual, you are essentially male, and any facsimile of womanhood you achieve can only be
honestly understood as the expression of an essentially male sexual urge. I reject the idea
that it's causal or essential, and I think the strongest piece of evidence that it isn't essential
is that even the rare trans women who identify as autogynephilic admit that after transition,
the cross-sex fantasy and arousal vanishes,
yet they continue to prefer living as trans women. Blanchard made this observation himself.
If these trans women are essentially men with a paraphilic desire to become women, why would they
continue preferring to live as women after the paraphilic desires go away? Well, this is where
things get really weird. According to Blanchard and Lawrence, the only way to explain this is to
shift the goalpost and say that actually, autogynephilia isn't a paraphilia at all.
It's actually a sexual orientation. So what happens when you transition is you
actually pair-bond with yourself, forming a kind of stale, sexless marriage with the woman you've
become. And if that sounds like it doesn't make any goddamn sense at all, it's because it doesn't.
A pair-bond is a social relationship between two or more people. Are you saying that trans women
are a man and a woman inside this- why do they continue falling in love with other people-
I can't even start with this. This video is too long, I'm getting cranky. Look, this seems like
the point where Occam's Razor shuts down Blanchard's theory. Like, okay, maybe I subconsciously created
a female alter-ego with which my original male ego has fallen in love. But maybe lots of things.
Maybe I subconsciously want to become my mother so I can fuck my father. Maybe the elder gods ripped
my primordial duality in twain, and now I'm yearning for my female half. Or maybe I'm just
a woman who wants someone to fuck me every once in a while.
11. True autogynephiles
Among the narratives recorded in Lawrence's book, there are, admittedly, a few accounts of trans
women whose primary sexuality is the same as that of a woman who has a male ego. And that's because
a woman's sexuality and motivation throughout their transition does appear to be genuinely
autogynephilic. And I'm not gonna say that these people are lying about their experiences,
because that would be a terrible thing to do. Ultimately, ContraPoints is not a channel about
judging people, so I'm not gonna say that these people aren't really trans. I mean, I find it
weird and hard to imagine, but whatever. I'm the one who's into people licking milk off my tits.
And wait till you see my sex robot. And look, if I had autogynephilic feelings,
I would just tell you. I've already admitted to things in this video that I wouldn't tell my own
diary on my deathbed. But I just don't. This theory doesn't describe my conscious motivations
to transition. And that's ultimately the reason most trans women hate this theory,
not because of wounded narcissism or shattered erotic delusions. We just
don't like being misrepresented. But you know who does love this theory?
She's been there literally the whole time.
You know, I realize that by talking about this, I'm subjecting myself to a lot of ruthless,
psychoanalysis. Whether it's gonna come from TERF Reddit, or trans people who are mad at me for
even talking about this, or who knows, maybe even Blanchard and Bailey themselves. So you know what,
why don't we just get that out of the way right now. It's time to put this tranny on trial.
12. The Autogynephilia Trial of ContraPoints
All rise. The Autogynephilia Department of the Sexology Court is now in session.
Judge Bailey presiding.
Calling the case of the gender-critical subreddit versus
ContraPoints. Are both sides ready?
District Attorney Cockbane, ready for the subreddit, Your Honor?
Ready, I guess.
Your Honor, ladies of the subreddit, the defendant is a man. A full-grown,
six-foot, wide-shouldered man in a dress.
It's really more of a hospital gown?
The evidence will show that the defendant is not a woman, but a male pervert,
role-playing as such, for his own twisted sexual amusement.
Abigail, what are you holding?
It's for horseback riding.
Your Honor, I would like to admit into evidence the following video clip,
uploaded to YouTube by the defendant on June 13th, 2016.
Oh, God.
Fishnets, garter belts, corsets. If these are not the trappings of an autogynephile,
then I don't have 2x chromosomes. Agreed. Well, what do you have to say for yourself?
Well, why do you think I had all that fetish stuff in the first place?
The court does not need to hear about your perverse masturbation rituals.
I bought that stuff for Rocky Horror.
What?
Rocky Horror Picture Show. I used to do Frankenfurter.
Your Honor, I'd like to admit into evidence the following photograph.
That's me at E Street Cinema in 2014. This one's on the house, Kiwi Farms.
Are you a Rocky Horror fan, Your Honor?
Am I?
It's just a jump to the left and take a step to the right.
Put your hands on your hips.
And bring your knees in tight. But it's the pelvic thrust.
Ew.
So you liked to dress up as another cross-dressing autogynephile.
How is that helping your case at all?
Well, I know Rocky Horror is problematic.
But when you're living as a man,
there aren't a lot of socially acceptable occasions to try out cross-dressing.
You know, it's basically Rocky Horror, Halloween,
pretty much any time it's socially allowed to be a freakish monster.
And come to think of it,
the scary monster autogynephile is a trope I've played with since the beginning of this channel.
The whole ContraPoints aesthetic is very like autogynephilia-chic.
I originally was going to have the narrator of this channel be more of a fictional character.
The idea was to be like autogynephile Harry Plinkett.
And part of that is that I kind of hated myself.
I thought I was just disgusting.
Part of it is that representing yourself as a scary monster
actually does capture something of the horror of gender dysphoria.
And part of it is that identifying with the horror of gender dysphoria,
with a scary monster version of yourself is actually kind of empowering, like cis feminists,
you have your thing about witches. Okay, but monster version or not, real women do not wear
fishnets and garter belts and corsets. This is just male fetishism. Well, it's true that cis
women generally don't dress that way, no. I mean, unless they're doing Rocky Horror, it's actually
pretty popular. But I never wear shit like that anymore. In fact, it actually causes gender
dysphoria because it makes me feel like a male cross-dresser. Sometimes trans women start out
with a fairly male conception of what women wear. I guess that's true. A lot of trans women
transition after a period of sort of trying things out as a cross-dresser or a drag queen.
But you know, it takes time to develop an authentic sense of female fashion. Like,
what did you wear when you were 14?
That's what I thought. But also, why not steal fashion ideas from drag queens and kinksters?
Cis women do. They have some good ideas. Without
drag queens and kinksters, they don't have any.
Without drag queens and kinksters, we'd have no contouring, no chokers. And what would we do then,
Abigail? What would we do then? I don't know what you would do. I think I could manage.
Your Honor, I would like to admit into evidence the following clip.
Is there a way to smash my ribs in? I'll smash them in. I'll smash the shit out of them.
These shoes are cute, and I'll finally be able to hit my head on the tops of door frames.
Would you fuck me? I wouldn't. Your Honor, the defendant literally tries on high heels and
corsets in front of a mirror before posing to himself the question, would you fuck me? This,
Your Honor, is peak trans.
How do we even need to have a trial about this? Well, that scene depicts a kind of anguish,
not sexual pleasure. Would you fuck me is obviously a reference to Silence of the Lambs,
and is what is known in the trans community as a joke. The corsets, the high heels, these were
primitive efforts.
at clawing my way out of manhood, and they're efforts that I've left behind. Now that I'm on
female hormones and I live this way full-time, I feel the way I'm supposed to feel, and I don't
need to lean on that stuff for validation. I mean, I still do some things that cis women don't do.
I sleep in a bra, which I'm pretty sure no cis woman has ever done. I do it because I need to
feel something, God, anything, taking up space on my chest. And feeling that reassures me enough
that I can fall asleep. Not so I can look at myself in the mirror, not so I can get off,
so I can simply fall asleep.
No one ever claimed that trans women are literally the same as cis women. We have many experiences
in common, but in other ways our experiences are very different. Yes, and you don't have the
oppression experiences that cis women have. Well, you know what, Abigail? You're right. For the most
part, I don't. But it's impossible for us to have an actual conversation about this because you're
just such a fucking asshole. And if you honestly want to talk about trans women and oppression
experiences, don't have this conversation with someone who started transitioning five months ago.
Go find someone who transitioned decades ago,
and talk to them about their experiences as women.
Your honor, the defendant does not bleed. I find that pretty conclusive.
As do I. Guilty as charged.
13. Final Thoughts
I think some cis people will be very congratulatory towards me for making this video. Some of them will
say things like, why can't all trans people be as calm and rational and open about their experiences
as you? Well, I'm very happy if you found the video elucidating, but I'd like cis people to
think a little bit harder about why not a lot of trans women talk about this. It's not just me, it's
not just me, it's not just me, it's not just me, it's not just me, it's not just me, it's not just me,
it's not just me, it's not just me, it's not just me, it's not just me, it's not just me.
It's humiliating, it's exhausting, and it's required me to publicize a detailed analysis
of my most private sexual feelings for the scrutiny of people who despise me. I've had
to discuss things that I'm honestly terrified to discuss, because I'm afraid that people will never
take me seriously as a woman, hence ruining any chance I have at happiness. For trans women,
this debate is intensely personal and risky. Our lives and happiness are at stake.
Meanwhile, Blanchard and Bailey are not just neutral,
devoted pursuers of scientific truth. They've continuously and needlessly been derisive and
cruel toward trans people, and they've misused their power as academic authorities to misrepresent
and humiliate us. No part of my present experience corresponds to the core claim of their theory.
I may drape myself in a hundred layers of defensive irony and depravity,
but I am at core a woman who is very thoroughly not in love with myself. So I have to hope,
for the sake of my own happiness, that someday I will be loved by someone who
thinks of me as a woman. Otherwise, I'm fucked.
This was a rough one girls, I dare say you've earned a song!
Thanks For the times that you've given me
The memories are all onto my mind
And now it's my turn For the times that you've given me
And now it's my turn
And now it's my turn
And now it's my turn
Now we've come to the end of our rainbow There's something I must say out loud
You're once, twice, three times a lady And I love all of you, yes I do
Yes, you're once, twice
Three times a lady
And I love all of you, yes I do
And I love you
One more time
And just a step to the right
Put your hands on your hips!
And bring your knees in tight
It's just a pelvic thrust
That really drives me insane
Let's do the time warp again
Let's do the time warp again
