My face is the front of shop
My face is the real shop front
My shop is the fake side front
I'm real when I shop my face
Hey guys, it's Natalie. Welcome back to my channel. Today I'm going to do a makeup tutorial as always. But first, story time, story time, story time. I just want to be up front with you guys and let you know that I've had some facial surgery.
I'm always going to be honest with you guys about this kind of thing because you mean so much to me. Like, you've been here with me since the beginning and you've seen my story. My whole entire journey.
This journey I've been on.
As a transgender woman.
You've been with me on this whole journey.
This is my truth and you've accepted the truth of my journey.
This is a really vulnerable moment for me and you guys are just as special because you've been here for me throughout my whole transgender journey.
The whole message of my journey as an influencer.
It's just been so impactful on my life and the truth of my living.
It's just so meaningful that you guys have made it this far.
It really means so much to me that you guys are supporting the truth of the life experience of my transgender journey as an YouTube influencer.
And it's been so painful and during a really vulnerable time for me.
And I'm just so grateful to you guys because you're so meaningful and you've encouraged me.
I think the main thing we've learned together on this channel is that makeup is a lot of fun but it's inner beauty that really counts.
Anyway, let's talk about plastic surgery.
I had facial feminization surgery on April 2nd, so about a month and a half ago.
What we call facial feminization surgery or FFS is actually a series of different procedures that some transgender women choose to have to look more feminine.
So what I had done is forehead contouring, a brow lift, rhinoplasty, mandible contouring, a trachea shave.
You know what, let's just have the skull lady talk you through it.
A coronal incision was made towards the cranial vault, whence the skin of the forehead was stripped away from the bone.
A fragment of the supra-orbital ridge was then chiselled away, removed, reshaped and re-affixed,
thereby eliminating that undesirable prominence of a robust brow that oftentimes distinguishes the skull of the child.
A second incision was made
the columella of the nasal septum,
facilitating the reconstruction
of the anterior cartilage and bone.
Further incisions were made betwixt the gum and cheek,
through which the mandible was rasped and shaved
down to a gracile curvature of a jaw and pointed chin,
thereby delineating a facial silhouette
exhibiting that aspect which medical men call cunty.
It all sounds pretty gruesome
when you describe it like that,
but there's actually a very fine level
of technique and aesthetics involved.
My plastic surgeon is an artist.
The results are natural,
I don't look like I've had a bunch of work done,
which is good, you know,
you at least wanna leave people wondering,
maybe she's born with it,
maybe a surgeon peeled her face off
and fixed her shitty skull.
Here's a before and after picture
where you can clearly see the difference.
To use the exact medical terminology,
my brows on fleek, my nose is no longer busted the house,
my jaw snatched, and my Adam's apple is canceled.
Wasn't it always really Eve's apple?
Maybe Satan's apple?
I think I still look like myself.
It's not a new face.
We're talking about millimeters of bone here.
But to have all that done was,
well, it costs a lot of money.
The anticipation was, oh, terror like I've never known.
The pain was memorable.
And the recovery took more than a month.
In fact, I still have some swelling in my jowls.
Jowls, there's a nice feminine sounding word, love that.
The standard YouTube T-girl thing to do, of course,
would have been to vlog the whole journey.
Story time, my facial surgery experience,
my FFS journey, and post-constant social media,
and all the media updates about it.
And I am grateful to the trans women who have done that
because it was really helpful to me
to be able to watch those vlogs in advance
and know what I was getting myself into.
But I decided not to post about the surgery
because I wanted privacy for the recovery
and to just take some time to get to feel at home
with the results before subjecting myself
to the vicious things they say about me in the tabloids.
You know, I think I've been kind of psychologically damaged
by reading for years the things people say
about my appearance online.
And I'm not even talking about the haters.
I mean, I can mostly brush them off.
But for instance, about a year ago,
I was reading through a transgender subreddit
and some trans woman was agonizing about her appearance
and someone offered the encouragement,
you know, you can still look hot even if you don't pass.
Just look at ContraPoints.
Ugh, like a dagger to the heart.
The unintentional shade of it all.
So the past six weeks have been, at times,
difficult and lonely, but I did manage to keep
my mug off social media for long enough
that I'm as ready as I'm ever gonna be
for the commentary of the internet.
So bring it on, you jackals, you vultures, you goblin swine.
While I was lying around bandaged and bored,
I did have a lot of time to think.
And what I've been thinking about
is probably the same thing you're wondering right now,
which is why would someone do what I just did?
Why would I spend so much time and money
and go through so much anxiety and pain
just to change a few millimeters of bone?
Isn't this all just extravagant vanity,
some narcissistic symptom of phones but too much?
Well, I feel like there's a lot of pressure on me
to say that, in fact, this wasn't cosmetic surgery at all.
Usually, trans people say that surgeries
like facial feminization, top surgery,
general reassignment, and so on,
serve the sole purpose of alleviating gender dysphoria,
this discomfort we feel with the mismatch
between our bodies and our gender identity.
So what I'm supposed to say is that my surgery
was a medically necessary, reconstructive procedure
needed to make my testosterone-weathered facial bones
match the five-foot-two, happy baby bouncy bio girl
I truly am inside.
Thereby, alleviating my dysphoria,
helping me safely blend into society,
and preventing a five-alarm psychiatric meltdown.
And there is definitely truth to that.
It's certainly the argument I intend to make
when I write this off as a medical expense on my taxes.
If you're an IRS auditor, please stop this video now
and insert the next floppy disk into your CD drive.
But hypothetically speaking,
I think the reality might not be quite so simple.
How sharp is the line separating gender dysphoria
from the other kinds of body image dysphoria
that drive cisgender people
to get cosmetic surgery all the time?
Last year, when I used to foolishly tweet things of substance,
I tweeted that I wanted to get FFS,
and some trans people responded,
telling me that I was suffering
from internalized transphobia and self-loathing.
They compared it to East Asian people
getting double eyelid surgery,
or so-called ethnic rhinoplasty,
which they say are motivated by internalized racism
and Western beauty standards.
I think that's a pretty weak analogy,
and telling a trans person
to just learn to accept the way they look
can actually be kind of transphobic,
because a big part
of what it even means to be trans,
at least for me,
is the desire to look more female.
But I also think trans people often talk
like gender dysphoria
is this intrinsic, personal experience
that's always 100% valid
and never has anything at all to do
with the external pressure of beauty standards.
But in fact,
gender dysphoria is not sealed away in a vacuum
away from the influence of societal ideals and norms.
Early in my transition,
some of my worst dysphoria was about body hair,
so I had full body laser hair removal,
and now I'm smoother
than a cisgender boiled egg.
But where does the idea
that women don't have body hair come from?
Isn't that just an arbitrary grooming custom?
A lot of the cis women I know
don't so much as shave their legs,
so maybe I'm not even trying to look like a cis woman.
Maybe I'm simply doing everything I can
to avoid looking like the caricature
of a knuckly, hairy,
mannish trans woman
with which society has terrorized me to my core.
Is this gender dysphoria?
Or is it internalized transphobia?
Or is it simply a cosmetic preference?
When I try to psychoanalyze myself,
I find that my desires to look female,
to look feminine,
and to look beautiful
are not exactly the same,
but they're woven together so tightly
that it's kind of difficult to untangle them.
And the opposite is also true,
that for me,
feeling mannish or dysphoric
usually goes along with feeling ugly.
I don't have a lot of days
where I walk out the house thinking,
well, I'm giving femme queen realness,
but apart from that,
I look like absolute shit.
Of course,
there are qualities that make you look female
that aren't necessarily attractive,
like cellulite or flabby arms,
which are super fish,
but aren't deemed beautiful by society.
The truth is,
I don't just want to look female,
I want to be beautiful.
Desperately.
God, I'll do anything.
Anything.
In this video,
I want to explore why I'm so obsessed
with being beautiful,
and why it seems like a lot of people
who live in a society are so obsessed.
Is it phones?
It's probably phones.
I know you're supposed to pretend
that you don't care about being beautiful
or that you're not trying,
but guys,
it's the only thing I care about
and I've never tried so hard at anything.
Of course,
I do feel guilty about being so obsessed with it,
because there's this idea
that caring about beauty makes you shallow or vain.
You know,
smart people aren't supposed to care about beauty,
and I've always been categorized as a smart person
by people around me.
Some of that is when you're raised like I was,
as a middle-class white boy with no athletic talent.
Parents and teachers treat you like a fucking genius,
like Einstein nutted a load in Mozart's bussy,
and Mozart shat you out
while he was getting a rusty trombone
from Vincent van Gogh.
It inspired his famous painting,
Starfish Night.
But even among women,
caring about beauty is often frowned upon.
I feel like an alien species
when I hang out with women in academia,
and I know a few
because I once got half a PhD
before dropping out to become a,
what do you call someone who makes videos?
A cam girl.
Most female grad students and professors I know
don't wear makeup.
To them,
the idea of earnestly putting on press-on nails
or false eyelashes is inconceivable.
Like,
maybe on Halloween,
and part of that is that women in male-dominated fields
sometimes feel like they have to present more masculine
to be taken seriously,
because of this prejudice
that beautified femininity equals frivolous.
But another part is clearly some kind of
not-like-other-girls weird flex.
Which,
okay,
fine,
whatever,
I'm not gonna judge another woman
for the way she copes with a society
that pressures women to be beautiful
while simultaneously belittling them for caring about it.
I guess my way of coping is this tacky,
heteronormative,
and tragically sincere aspiration
to some kind of post-ironic feminine beauty.
Why am I like this?
Well, part of it is vindictive transsexualism,
pure and simple.
To all the people who've ever called me a man,
I wanna say,
fuck you.
By looking like the undeniable visual archetype of a woman,
which is a beautiful, feminine woman.
Who's wearing 600,000 sequins.
They're biological sequins.
Uh.
Ooh.
That is some ASMR right there,
listen to that.
Oh.
Oh.
Another factor is this shitty website.
I'm a professional YouTube influencer,
forgive me father,
and I'm on camera all the time.
I edit my own videos,
so I spend upwards of 60 hours a month
staring at my own face on a screen.
Now you try doing that
and see what kind of fucked up complex you develop.
Plus, I compare myself to other women who make videos.
A lot of the trans women on YouTube are so young,
and so beautiful,
it makes me wanna throw up.
And in comparison,
for a long time,
I've felt like this shabby,
aging transvestite.
Just this feral cat wandering the aisles of the liquor store.
So I'm insecure,
I'm compensating for that whole mess,
but I honestly don't resent the beautiful people,
I really just stand the hell out of them.
I follow this woman on YouTube,
but I wanna be just like her mom.
Her name is Dame Jefferson Starr.
Her name is Lady Jane McLean.
Senora Nicole Beatrice Tutorials.
Tatyana Petrovna West-Rykova.
And of course my queen and perfect goddess,
whomst I stan,
and whose portrait I've painted hundreds of times.
So there's maybe some extra intensity for me,
but I think it's actually pretty normal
to wanna be beautiful.
I think even grad students wanna be beautiful.
They just wanna do it in that Becky kind of way,
where you scoff at anything glam or artificial.
And it's not just women who care about beauty either.
I mean, gay men in LA have always been getting cosmetic surgery,
but now even the straights are doing it.
Incels are completely obsessed with the details,
the defects of their personal appearance.
And the ones who aren't completely black-pilled
are obsessed with plastic surgery.
The incel newspeak word for beauty is looks-maxing,
because of course they have to go about this
in the most heterosexual possible way.
It is imperative to implement a skin-max regimen
in order to maximize looks-money status
and secure access to females.
Oh my god, calm down.
Not every sentence out of your mouth
has to be worded like a dispatch to the police commissioner.
Yes, they actually call skincare skin-maxing.
James Charles, I know you're having a hard month,
but I've got a business idea
to turn this thing around for you.
Here's the plan.
You're gonna create a new line of skincare products
called Chad Glow.
Bribe PewDiePie to send his fans to the promo video,
hi sister cells,
and send me a check in the mail, you're welcome.
If you read looks-max forums,
they're filled with discussions of brow ridge implants,
chin implants, mandible implants.
It must needs be remarked that the skull of the Chad
exhibiteth a jawbone most robust.
It's literally facial masculinization surgery.
So everyone's obsessed with the bones,
everyone's obsessed with beauty,
whether man or woman, cis or trans, gay or gamer.
Maybe lesbians are just straight chillin',
while everyone else has completely lost their minds.
But why?
Why do we care so much?
Well with incels, by their own account,
the only reason they care is they think that looks-maxing
will make femoids have sex with them,
and they think that will make their lives feel meaningful,
which it will not.
So incels are canceled.
Now what about women?
What's our deal?
What's our sitch?
What's our vibe?
What's our vij?
Well men seem to think that women are like inverted incels,
that we care about beauty and wear makeup,
fake up,
because we're trying to attract men.
My daddy Dom went on Vice News last year
and said that women wear makeup
because they're trying to stimulate male sexual arousal
and because evolution.
Now with the risk of being bratty,
I gotta say this is maybe 10% true and 90% false.
For one thing, straight men don't like makeup.
At least they don't think they do.
Here's a chart I made illustrating what every straight man
in the world thinks about makeup.
Yes, I asked all of them.
If you wear no makeup, they think you look diseased.
And I actually do look diseased
when I don't wear makeup so fair enough.
If you wear natural makeup, you know,
a little concealer, mascara, maybe a nude lip,
they think you're not wearing any makeup and they like it.
If you wear campy makeup, colorful eyeshadow,
heavy contouring, overdrawn lips,
they think it's dumb and they hate it.
Of course I'm generalizing.
Hashtag not all daddy doms.
But if women really wore makeup to attract men,
then you'd expect that they'd stop wearing it
when there are no men.
But that doesn't happen.
About a month ago, there was that video going around
of a woman showing how to make jailhouse makeup,
mixing deodorant and magazine ink to make eyeshadow,
using Kool-Aid and Vaseline to make lipstick.
There's not a lot of men in women's prison,
but women are still performing incredible feats
of ingenuity and resourcefulness just to wear makeup.
So maybe women are using makeup
to express their individuality and femininity,
you know, things that prison tries to take away from you.
Kinda makes sense.
There's a Refinery29 documentary
about prison cosmetology and also sexual exploitation, yikes,
in which a former inmate describes how women would engage
in sexual bartering with male guards just to get makeup.
If a girl's performing sexual favors for an officer,
he would bring her in colored pencils, lip gloss,
things like that.
That's right, women are sucking dicks
that they can put on makeup, not the other way around.
Honestly, if all the men died tomorrow, F,
I'd definitely keep wearing makeup.
In fact, I might wear more.
And I'm not just saying that
because I'm trying to win feminist poise,
or anything.
Like, do I want to attract men?
Yes, of course I do.
Do I want to attract women?
I guess.
I don't really think about it.
Isn't it safer to just secretly fall in love with them
while quietly dying inside?
Whatever, it's fine.
I want to attract non-binary people too, of course,
but right now you guys are kind of getting in the way
of my crudely stereotyping people based on gender,
so how dare you?
The point is, when I think about my appearance,
wanting to attract people to have sex with
is not the main thing going through my head.
What is going through my head?
I guess I just want to feel beautiful,
I want to see myself in the mirror
and think I look snatched, is that a crime?
I don't feel pretty very often.
I'd say it happens about once a month
when I'm having a good skin day,
I do my makeup just right,
I glisten with setting spray,
and then it happens.
A tingle goes up my spine.
I am Botticelli.
I am Van Gogh.
I have created beauty, I'm a girl.
And then it's over, that's it for a month.
Usually when I look in the mirror,
I can't actually tell whether I'm pretty or not.
Like with other people, I can just look at them
and instantly make a judgment about it,
but with myself, I have to just guess.
It's the same as being a trans person
trying to figure out whether you pass.
Would you clock me?
I'd clock me.
I'd fuck me too, I don't give a shit.
Get out of my room, mom!
It doesn't work like that for me.
I have to rely on other people's feedback.
Of course, the problem with other people's feedback
is that people are liars.
You look great, hon.
Especially when those people are your fans.
Boots the house queen, stuff in my throat,
mother, I'll die for you.
Oh my God.
Or when they're your haters.
Your disgusting giant collarbone
outs you as a man at a thousand paces.
I guess I'll never know whether I'm pretty or not.
But I can estimate, like I have figured out
that I'm too pretty for Twitter,
but I'm not sure yet if I'm pretty enough for Instagram.
It's hard being a six.
I have been dipping my toes in the Instagram water.
Before my surgery, I got into a pretty good rhythm
of posting my shitty little makeup looks,
and what I find addictive about it
is this constant flow of positive comments
from other people, even though I know it's mostly flattery.
You invented beauty, perfect angel, choke me, mommy.
Every time I get a comment like that,
I'm perfectly aware that it's wild exaggeration
fueled by parasocial delusions,
but I still get a hit of dopamine in my biologically-fueled,
female brain.
And the intoxicating thing about Instagram
is that the embellishment of the truth is a two-way street,
thanks to the miracle of Facetune.
Yes, we finally get to talk about the phones.
See, it's a black mirror because it's a window
into the darkness of the human soul.
Get it?
Should I explain it again?
Phones live in a society.
Facetune is an app that lets you fix
all the problems with your face.
So here's an unedited pre-FFS picture of me.
What I would do in Facetune is smooth out the complexion,
shrink the nose a little, bring the jaw in,
and use the vibrance tool to make the eyeshadow pop.
It's really no more drastic
than the kinds of photo doctoring people have been doing
since the invention of photography.
What's changed is that now everyone is doing it
to their own photos every day.
And I've noticed that when I'm in the habit
of editing my flaws out of pictures,
when I look at an unedited picture of myself,
or when I look in the mirror,
my eyes go straight to the flaws.
Why are my pores so big?
Why aren't medical scientists doing something to stop this?
Is this really a good use of my mental energy?
Here comes that guilt again.
Instead of worrying about my pores,
shouldn't I be helping stop
the impending climate catastrophe
that's gonna destroy the planet
if we don't change the economy in like 12 years?
Shit, I guess it's 11 years now.
It's just hard to focus on climate change
when there's so much else on my mind.
He's just so cute.
I guess I'd just rather think about the aesthetic
than the apocalypse.
And that's the darkness.
Why is my neck like two decades older
than the rest of my skin?
Do I need Botox yet?
Should I get a facelift?
These are the questions that will no doubt
define the next couple decades of my life.
As if it wasn't bad enough to have to go
through a second adolescence on camera,
I also have to deal with aging,
and thus the ritual of skincare products.
Here's my daytime routine.
So first, I'm gonna mix the Dermalogica exfoliator
with the cleansing gel and just massage my face.
None of this is sponsored, by the way.
This is just me supporting corporations
out of the kindness of my heart.
Now, if I'm not running late for something,
I will do a face mask.
But if I'm out of bed,
it's because I'm running late for something.
So I've never done a face mask.
Now, I'm gonna use a toner, which is very important.
Now, a lot of people don't know what a toner does,
but look, it tones okay.
Do you want your face to be untoned?
Next, I'm gonna spray
the expensive Korean yeast directly into my eyes.
I use this because it's actually a lot cheaper
than the Japanese yeast,
so you're really losing money if you don't buy it.
Think of the savings.
Now, I'm gonna mix a pump of hyaluronic acid
with a couple spritzes of organic Bulgarian rose water.
You can almost smell the Bulgarian rose fields.
It's enchanting.
It's like I'm there.
There's not enough serum in the world for this neck leather.
I use this moisturizer because Gigi Gorgeous told me to,
and I do everything Gigi says.
Every fucking thing.
I know it seems like a lot of products,
but once you get locked into a serious skincare collection,
the tendency is to push it as far as you can.
I feel like I'm forgetting something.
A sunscreen.
I'm not really sure what this does.
We can probably skip it.
And I'm just gonna finish it all off
with some more expensive mist.
Yes, God.
I love a good facial.
I'm so fucking wet right now.
So after all these products,
does my skin look clearer, younger, more toned?
Well, it's hard to say, but I think it does.
I would say for sure, but it certainly is moist.
This is the part where I usually just stare at my own face
for 10 minutes and contemplate the futility
of my struggle against the ravages of time.
I'm fine.
It's fine.
This is fine.
It's fine.
So, isn't beauty supposed to be fun?
I'm not having fun right now.
Why am I not having fun?
I guess I just don't feel beautiful.
And I know a lot of people think I'm pretty,
and I know a lot of other people have it worse than me,
and I know I should be grateful,
and I know I'm privileged to be able to get plastic surgery,
and I know I shouldn't care so much about this
in the first place.
But the truth is that this just eats away at me,
and I'm losing a lot of time and life to this pain.
I've been kind of depressed this past month,
and I think part of it is that on a subconscious level,
I think I was hoping that surgery would completely
change my self-image and make me like myself.
But it really hasn't.
I'm not sure.
I mean, I'm happy with the results,
I'd do it all again,
but I still feel the way I felt before.
You have to keep in mind that surgery fixes
very specific problems,
like the Adam's apple problem,
or the way my forehead looks in profile problem.
But it's really not a solution to deep psychological issues.
I still don't feel beautiful,
and I need to face the fact that I'm never going
to feel beautiful unless I change the way I think.
Because I'm trapped in a doom spiral over here,
and if I'm ever gonna get out,
I think I need to start by forgiving myself
for wanting to be beautiful.
There's lots of reasons to wanna be beautiful
besides being shallow and vain.
For one, beauty is associated with youth,
it's a symbol of life, of defiance, of death.
That's a profound thing to be concerned about.
See, I'm not a bimbo, I'm a poet.
Beauty is also associated with moral worth,
the beautiful princess versus the evil hag.
There's studies showing that conventionally attractive
people are more likely to be assumed to be happy, healthy,
healthy, and trustworthy, they're more likely to be hired.
So it's not just about Instagram likes,
this is serious stuff.
And we, the woke, we are all aware of this.
We know that beauty is power, that beauty is political.
We know that beauty standards come from the people
with privilege in an unequal society.
We know it's unjust that being light-skinned, cis,
able-bodied, or thin is considered more attractive
than being dark-skinned, trans, disabled, or fat.
We know that female beauty matters so much
because it's patriarchy.
We know that our obsession with beauty is being provoked
by advertising, the cosmetic industry,
and beauty influencers who are trying to sell us products.
We know, we know, we know all this
because we've all been sitting around
critiquing it for decades.
Because that's what leftists do, we critique things.
We are finely-tuned detectors of racism, sexism,
ableism, fatphobia, transphobia, and capitalism-run AMAC.
We notice an injustice, we problematize it,
we critique it, and then we cancel it.
But what's next?
When we're done critiquing things,
what are we supposed to do?
Because I'm aware that conventional beauty standards
are a racist, sexist, ableist, fatphobic,
transphobic social construct designed to preserve
power relations and sell products,
but does that awareness mean I desire any less
to be conventionally beautiful?
Well, no.
I want it more than ever.
The problem is that the intellectual exercise
of critiquing things doesn't usually affect
my desires very much.
So what am I supposed to do?
Sit here in silent contemplation
until my desires finally align themselves
with the interests of the international proletarian revolution?
Oh, fuck the revolution.
I want to be a pretty rich girl.
I don't want to be ContraPoints anymore.
I want to be Gigi Gorgeous.
Fighting fascists on YouTube was an idea I came up with
when I was a male alcoholic.
Unfortunately, America needs a ContraPoints right now
more than it needs a 30-year-old Gigi Gorgeous impersonator,
so I guess I'm stuck with it.
Maybe it's for the best.
Critiquing society may not change our desires,
but it can motivate us to change society.
And changing society can change our desires.
So how do we change society?
Revolution.
Well, sure, revolution.
Depending on what happens in 2020,
I'll think of grabbing a brick myself.
But failing that, I think there are ways we can work
to loosen the grip of restrictive beauty standards
without the futility of trying to stop caring how we look.
I do think representation matters,
and I think having visible beauty icons
who are dark-skinned or trans or gender nonconforming
or disabled or fat or over 35 or influencers
makes a big difference.
Beauty standards are social constructs,
and social constructs can change.
That's why it's so important to recognize
that influencers are just as valid as other celebrities.
But the problem with changing society
is that it takes a long time,
and this video is almost over.
Where I can see an escape from my particular doom spiral
is in style as an alternative ideal to beauty.
You can be stylish at any age, you can be stylish
whether you pass or not.
Style is a way of cultivating a personal aesthetic
that you have complete control over.
It's like art in that originality is a virtue.
Style is an individual aesthetic,
unlike the collective aesthetic of beauty standards.
As the poet Wordsworth said about artistic appreciation,
"'Every author, as far as he is great
"'and at the same time original,
"'has had the task of creating the taste
"'by which he is to be enjoyed.'"
So even if you don't conform
to conventional beauty standards,
through the power of original style,
you can create the taste
by which your unique beauty is to be appreciated.
Society may frown upon us six-foot trannies,
but if I know I'm dressed well or my makeup is snatched,
I can easily abide any comment, any stare.
I can be misgendered a Dairy Queen for all I care.
It does not matter.
I can strut with confidence
because I am basking in the regal knowledge
of my own aesthetic superiority.
Bow before me, peasants!
I proclaim to the drive-through window,
for I am serving a lurk.
Sir, this is a Dairy Queen.
So, I guess that's the solution.
I can't believe I single-handedly ended capitalism.
Now, does that mean I'm not gonna get
a lot of expensive plastic surgery?
Fuck no!
What do you people think I am,
some kind of transgender Mother Teresa?
Goddamn.
The audacity of you people.
The hubris.
Look, I need plastic surgery because I have no style.
In fact, after the month of surgery,
you should be grateful I'm wearing clothes at all.
So, that's it for me.
I guess I have nothing but the decay of time and age
to look forward to.
I guess I'll just have to find my self-worth
in cultivating kindness, intelligence, and inner beauty.
Ew.
Gross.



I'm drooling all over myself
because my jaw is still numb from the surgery.
Love that.
