Hello, boys!
I get a lot of people on YouTube calling me degenerate, but I'm still not sure what
that means.
I try to be open to criticism, so I've decided that what I need is a glorious night of wisdom
to set me straight, and I think I've found just the man.
Some call him the valiant champion of Mother Europe, the ever-chosen of the gods, the radiant
paladin of the Fourth Reich.
But to this priestess of blasphemies, he'll always be the golden one.
A young prince, chosen to take the mantle of the ages.
Oh my god.
Look at his butt.
Oh my god.
Daddy, can I have some meat?
Looks like meat's back on the menu, boys.
Oh daddy.
You know, Lars, things have really changed since the last time we talked.
I'm a fair maiden now, to a certain extent, and I've been chaste since I started my transition,
so in a sense, I'm a virgin.
And I don't know about the rest of these decadent sluts, but I, for one, care about
a little thing called purity.
So now that my decade of gender dysphoric, alcohol-drenched debasement seems to be coming
to a close,
I think I'm really ready to begin the training, master.
But first, let us fend off degeneracy by purifying ourselves in a bath of Swedish lake water
in pure absinthe.
It's time.
Till now, I've always got my eye on my own.
I never really cared until I met you.
You know, the only thing I care about is being able to experience the same thing I did.
And I'm glad I can.
But first, let us fend off this…
Uh…
What?
Is this the bad kind of cultural appropriation?
It is, isn't it?
Well mmmmmm.
They're shiny, and I want them.
It's not my fault Black people have good ideas.
What am I supposed to do?
Not steal them?
I'll pop it out.
Alright, thou resplendent champion of the North.
Hit me with the upstart!
with your finest wisdom i'm gonna go train some shoulders and admire myself in the mirror that's
always a nice thing to do well at least we agree on something aha autogynephilic narcissist exposed
abigail isn't not invading women's bathrooms like your whole thing misogynistic mental illness
confirmed abigail what is your damage are you okay how's your mom doing is everything all right
you want to get in the tub ow you're a lost baby girl and you're a game sweet prince
he has an instagram and it is delectable meets back on the menu boys he carries the charles
atlas seal of approval what ho you jaunty lads my captain my king
if the golden one didn't exist i would have to invent him i need him
and maybe you need me too lars i'm the moon to your son the uh brunhilde to your siegfried
as you become more of a burly mask i become more of a silky femme but you know i'm noticing that
even though you're straight you don't seem super interested in the bodies of the women in your life
and this is just a casual suggestion but maybe what you want is a fair maiden like me i'm not
like the other girls i've got the t's and the d on second thought leave trans women alone
i don't want that blood on my hands well this is no longer a relaxing bath and that's why we never
bathed with fascists
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so so
well i've locked my t i popped my e let's talk about degeneracy what are people talking about
when they call something or someone degenerate well let's take a look at some examples from my
youtube comments section and see if we can figure it out from context transgender communist
degenerate kill yourself you degenerate tranny freak degen tranny lal trannies grow out of their
degeneracy by the time they're senior citizens or at least that's what i would assume since you
never see old dudes in dresses lol what's up with that this is degeneracy you ought to be
slung from a tree everybody likes to rhyme you little homos our future cannon fodder a bunch of physically weak degenerate dogs the end
awww these people are trying so hard to upset me they've only got one card in the deck though alas
anyway what i'm gathering from that sumptuous sampling of the choicest fuck boys is that like a burly nord with his fair maiden the accusation of degeneracy is usually paired with a loathing of queerness
now it's not always just about queerness in fact fascists and social conservatives use the word
Degeneracy as a catch-all term to refer to queers, non-whites, communists, communists,
people with disabilities, basically anyone who gets killed when the fascists win.
But where does the word Degeneracy come from? Let's watch an instructional video to learn
more.
The word Degenerate comes from the Latin prefix
D, which means away from, and the Latin word genus, which means race or kind. So, to be
degenerate is to no longer be of your race or kind, and if you think this already sounds
pretty fashy, you've been paying attention.
The current use of the term degenerate crystallized in the 18th and 19th centuries, when Lamarckian
proto-evolutionary biology, bourgeois disgust toward the urban working class, and a growing
colonialist awareness of supposedly inferior ethnic groups gave rise to Degeneration Theory,
the idea that civilization is in decline due to biological devolution.
Hold on, are these the exact same dingbats responsible for scientific racism?
The exact same dingbats, yes, and one of the chief dingbats was the French aristocrat
Arthur de Gabenot, one of the intellectual grandfathers of Nazism. Gabenot wrote a book
called Essay on the Inequality of the Human Races, in which he developed the idea of the
Aryan master race, warned that miscegenation would lead to social chaos, and gave the word
degenerate its modern fashy definition.
Milord?
The word degenerate, when applied to a people, means that the people no longer has the same
intrinsic value as the people themselves.
Degenerate.
As it had before, because it has no longer the same blood in its veins, continual adulterations
having gradually affected the quality of the blood. In fact, the man of a decadent time,
the degenerate man, properly so called, is a different being from the racial point of
view, from the heroes of the great ages. I think I'm right in concluding that the human
race in all its branches has a secret repulsion from the crossing of blood.
Notice that the degenerate man is the product of a decadent time, and decadence is a concept
closely related to degeneracy. Decadence literally means decay, which, like degeneracy, implies
a fall from a previous state of grace. By the late 19th century, concerns about decadence
were everywhere in the European cultural imagination.
During this period, German nationalist composer Richard Wagner wrote his essay condemning
Jewishness in music, which he first published under the pseudonym Freigedank, which literally
means free thought.
That's right, he pulled the goddamn free speech card.
Then the Jewish doctor Max Nordau published a pseudo-medical book called Degeneration,
accusing Wagner and other contemporary artists of degeneracy. And around the same time, a
bunch of queer, absinthe-swilling artists reclaimed the word decadence as the title
of their movement.
Everyone was accusing everyone of degeneracy and decadence. It was 4chan writ large.
So the idea that Western civilization has become decadent is not exactly true. It's
just a myth.
Not at all. The idea that European civilization is in some way suicidal or self-destructive
goes back to the 18th century, when scholarship about the fall of the Roman Empire led to
speculation about what causes civilizations to decline. And one of the hypotheses was
that effeminate hedonistic emperors and general decadence left the Romans vulnerable to butch
Visigoths and Vandals.
Is there any truth to that?
No. It's vulgar pseudo-history encouraged by social conservatives. The decadent emperors,
Nero, Caligula, Elagabalus, reigned from the 1st to the 3rd centuries. The empire didn't
collapse till the end of the 5th century, which leaves at least 200 years between the
decadence and the collapse, at which time the empire was thoroughly Christian. And in
any case, the eastern half of the empire still survived for another thousand years.
Well, hail Caligula! But you know, a lot of people still believe this story about ancient
civilizations collapsing because of the queers. Here's feminist Camille Poglia on how the
transgenders destroy civilizations.
The movement toward androgyny occurs in late phases of culture, as a civilization is starting
to unravel.
Hang on a second. I'm going to need to shift up a gear for this.
You can find it again and again and again through history in the Greek art. You can
see it happening. All of a sudden, there's a kind of, you know, the sculptures of handsome
nude young men athletes that used to be very role playing. And you can see it happening.
And you can see it happening. All of a sudden, there's a kind of, you know, the sculptures
of handsome nude young men athletes that used to be very role playing. And you can see it
happening. And you can see it happening. And you can see it happening. And you can
see it happening. And you can see it happening. And you can see it happening. And then you
can see it happening. And you can see it happening. And you can see it happening. And
you can see it happening. And you can see it happening. And you can see it happening.
It's very robust, okay, in the archaic period. It suddenly began to seem like wet noodles
towards the end, okay.
People who live in such times, okay, feel that they're very sophisticated. They're
cosmopolitan.
Domestic divisiveness and yearly
And homosexuality, heterosexuality, so on, anything goes and so on.
But from the perspective of historical distance, you can see it's a culture that no longer
believes in itself. And then what you invariably get are people who are convinced of the power
of heroic blush.
of the power of heroic masculinity, on the edges, whether they're the Vandals or the Huns,
or whether they're the barbarians of ISIS, you see them starting to mass on the upsides of the culture.
And that's what we have right now. There is a tremendous and rather terrifying disconnect
between the infatuation with the transgender movement in our own culture and what's going on out there.
I mean, that's why I'm concerned. I feel it's ominous.
I question whether the transgender choice is indeed genuine in every single case.
Riley J. Dennis. Why did you destroy ancient Rome?
So the idea is that our infatuation with effeminate decadence means we're going to be destroyed by real men.
You know, like ISIS. This doesn't deserve a response. We're moving on.
Where does fuckin' Nietzsche fit into all of this?
Oh god, do we really have to do this?
So there's this dead German asshole named Friedrich N...
who's every edgy 19-year-old's favorite philosopher.
Hey baby, the ladies tell me I'm Apollonian in the streets.
Dionysian in the stree... in the... in the...
Shhhhh. Go to sleep.
Basically what he said is that the moral system of Western Europe,
and modern culture, especially Christianity, is decadent,
in the sense that, unlike pre-Socratic Greek society,
we have all these hangups about guilt and sin and the afterlife.
And Nietzsche says these ideas originate with people who are weak and sick,
and that they repress our basic biological instincts to value strength and beauty and worldly happiness.
In practice, this turns out to be a Rorschach test that everyone reads their own ideas into.
There's a fascist interpretation that says we need to cast off the slave morality idea of universal human equality
to make way for the triumph of beefy Aryans.
And then there's the more progressive interpretation that says we need to stop worrying about, like,
fucking Christian morality, man, and reinstate the cult of Dionysus,
which, okay, I'd be down to go to that party, especially if we don't have to talk about Nietzsche.
What all this is leading up to is simply the point that by the time 20th century fascism was really kicking into gear,
European society was already primed with a couple centuries of degeneracy discourse.
Racist pseudoscience was combined with degeneration theory and Wagnerian mysticism to produce the core ideas of National Socialism.
Namely, one, the German people and nation are like a biological organism that is prone to infection and decay.
Two, Jews, Poles, Roma, homosexuals, communists, and the disabled are degenerate elements that contribute to decay.
And three, the degenerate elements must be purged in order to secure the health and existence of the organism.
So there you have it.
The history of degeneration theory from Foppington to fascism.
Well, thanks for the history lesson, Doc.
One particular thing I've noticed about modern fascists is they're especially obsessed with breeding bountiful crops of white babies.
Nazis call the Jews vermin, but it's the white people they think should breed like rats.
And they specifically loathe anything that stands in the way of fit white reproduction,
including, as they see it, being gay, being trans, being queer, being fat, being a beta male, being a slut,
being a feminist, not getting married,
not having kids,
having kids that aren't white,
masturbating,
looking at porn,
drinking alcohol,
doing drugs,
using birth control,
having abortions.
Condoms and orgies and mass immigration
Malt liquor forties and miscegenation
Boys who use dildos and girls with cock rings
These are my favorite degenerate things
Very cute.
But don't you think they might have a point about the drugs and alcohol?
Oh god damn, fine, we'll talk about the alcohol thing.
There's like ContraPoint's fans now who watch my videos and look up to me,
so I have to be responsible and I hate it.
So look, if you're gonna drink, I'm certainly not gonna stop you,
but don't even think about driving, okay?
Drink lots of water and pace yourself.
There's plenty of time to be blackout when you're dead,
and you're gonna be if you don't take it slow.
Alcohol is dangerous.
It's unhealthy, it's only fun in moderation,
and it can put you in really vulnerable situations with really horrible people.
So I would never recommend that anyone get involved with alcohol for any reason.
I mean, unless you like having fun and feeling good.
Where were we?
Absinthe and coffee and bitchy sarcasm
Estrogen crying and fruitless orgasms
Antifa furries and denby drag kings
These are my favorite degenerate things
Hi there.
I hope you're having a soothing degenerate bath.
What I want you to do is just lie back and try to relax.
And I am just going to slowly start to drip
hot candle wax all over you.
So for fascists and identitarians,
anything that doesn't contribute to the greater cause of white procreation is degenerate.
And individual fascists differ on what those things are.
Most of them agree that homosexuality is degenerate,
because apparently gay people can't raise children.
Fascists venerate nuclear families of one dominant white man and one subservient white woman
because they view the situation as the perfect factory for churning out clean-cut heterosexual white kids.
And if you soften the emphasis on whiteness, you get basic social conservatism.
So this really isn't just about fascism,
though I do like to talk about the fascists because they have the biggest muscles.
Speaking of which, a lot of rightists have realized that in the 21st century,
the social conservative position is not very cool.
So what they do is they say they of course have no problem with individual homosexuals,
what they have a problem with is the gay agenda.
What they have a problem with, essentially, is queerness.
Now, what is queerness?
Well, people have all kinds of scholastic debates about this,
but in its most generic sense, queer means that you have some kind of weird sex thing.
So either your gender is all fucked up, or you have creative tastes and sexual partners.
But unlike the words homosexual or transgender,
queer is tinged with a connotation of rebellion,
often rebellion against the heteronormative commandments of marriage, monogamy, procreation, and productivity.
So social conservatives and even a few fascists claim that they're willing to tolerate gay and transgender people,
but only if you shut up about it, conform to straight society, and try to act as normal as possible.
What they can't stand is loud nonconformist queerness, because think of the children.
We're talking pride parades, activists, leather daddies, gender fucks,
gangsters, polyamorists, sing it with me,
these are my favorite degenerate things.
To fascists, the pursuit of individual happiness must be subservient to the health and success of the race.
So in a sense, traditionalism is a much more collectivistic philosophy than even communism,
which only demands the communal ownership of the means of production.
At least in theory, communism doesn't tell you what gender to be or who and how to fuck.
In practice, though, there's not a single position on the political spectrum
that's immune to complaining about degeneracy.
While I was researching this video, I randomly came across an article
from an American communist newspaper from 1976 that claims,
While we communists suppose attacks on anyone by the bourgeoisie, including homosexuals,
we do not uphold homosexuality as a democratic right.
Homosexuality is a form of social sickness, a form of social perversion.
It is a form of bourgeois ideology, which appeals especially to the petty bourgeoisie
because of its appearance as sexual freedom.
Homosexuality arose from class oppression and the oppression of women.
Geez, fellow degenerates, we're kinda short on allies out here, huh?
We've got the fascists calling us sexual Bolshevists,
and meanwhile the communists are calling us bourgeois decadents.
Why does everyone hate decadence so much?
Is pleasure really so wrong?
Listen, I don't want my position to be misunderstood.
I know that most people will probably always be straight, cis, monogamous, and procreative.
And you know, that's probably for the best.
Someone needs to have the babies and keep society running.
All we gentle decadents ask is,
to be allowed to enjoy our special delights and peace.
My goal is not to purge masculinity from society or anything of the kind.
In the perfect society created by me, there will be plenty of beefy studs around,
so don't you worry about that.
And that's the difference between me and the fascists.
I want a society where people like me are simply allowed to exist.
And, this is the important part, where people not like me are simply allowed to exist.
Fascists want a society where only people like them are allowed to exist.
The queer quest is to survive.
The fascist quest is to be the only survivor.
Society can tolerate for thousands of years the existence of priests,
which is to say, bejeweled men in dresses who have no children
and are a giant tax-exempt drain on the economy.
Well, you can certainly tolerate queer people who crack Nazi codes
and write you musicals and sing you songs.
So if you think the meaning of life is to create as many white babies as possible,
you know what? Fine. Go make white babies.
But I really must insist upon my right, and the right of all degenerates,
to coexist alongside you in our own decadent communities
of race mixing, sexual anarchy, and rock and roll.
Rock and roll.
Rock on gold dust woman
Take your silver spoon
Take your grave
Wake up in the morning
See your sunrise loves to go down
Lousy lovers pick their prey
But they never cry out loud
Cry out
Well, did she make you cry?
Make you break down?
Shatter your illusions of love?
Tell me, is it over now?
Do you know how to pick up the pieces and go?
Oh, yeah.
Rock on ancient queen
Follow those who fell in your shadow
That was dagged up.
Rulers make bad lovers
You better put your kingdom up for sale.
One more time.
Oh, did she make you cry?
Make you break down?
Shatter your illusions of love?
Well, tell me, is it over now?
Do you know how
To pick up the pieces and go?
Rock and roll.
Rock on gold dust woman
Take your silver spoon
Take your silver spoon
Pick up your grave
