on the day that the female eunuch was issued in america a person in flapping draperies rushed up
to me and grabbed my hand thank you it breathed hoarsely thank you so much for all you've done
for us girls i smirked and nodded and stepped backward trying to extricate my hand from the
enormous knuckly hairy beringan paw that clutched it the face staring into mine was thickly coated
with a pancake makeup through which the stubble was already burgeoning in futile competition with
a dine-out wig of immense luxuries and two pairs of false eyelashes against the bony ribs that
could be counted through its flimsy scarf dress swung a polished steel woman's liberation emblem
i should have said you're a man the female eunuch has done less than nothing for you
piss off
you
let's go adult human females
first of all a reminder that this video is a female only space so if there are any men here
today get out i mean unless you enjoy watching the very interesting things women do on our own
in which case i'm going to let you know that this video is a female only space
i'm going to let you know that this video is a male only space
like comment subscribe so look it's 2019 and i think most people have heard about TERFs
trans exclusionary radical feminists you know these fanatics like jermaine greer who call
trans women it and think trans men are lost lesbian sisters you guys do know about trans men right male
to female is not the only type of transgender person there's also people who were born well
people who were assigned people who were always
people who are born people who were always
people who are always
people who are always
People who identify.
TERFs don't like being called TERFs.
They think it's a term of disparagement, which it is.
They call themselves radical feminists, radfems,
or lately, gender critical.
The idea is that gender, femininity, masculinity,
gender roles, all that, it's all a patriarchal construct,
and biological sex is the only thing
that makes a person a man or a woman.
In the past on this channel,
I've always caricatured TERFs as being like angry,
man-hating bigots whose only real tactic
is accusing trans women of being creepy men.
And there definitely are some people
who are really like that, but I wanna be fair.
I wanna be balanced.
So in preparation to make this video,
I posted an invitation to Twitter asking people
who used to be gender critical feminists
to share their stories with me.
And I got hundreds of responses,
a lot of them from women who've had
traumatic experiences with men,
and who at one time found comfort in a rigid view of gender
where women and men are completely separate species,
where women are safe and men are dangerous.
And for a lot of those women, allowing trans people
into their picture of the world,
at first challenged their sense of stability
and comfort.
It was difficult emotional work,
work they needed to do, but still difficult.
And that makes total sense to me.
Like it's very easy for me to understand
why someone would feel that way.
So it's not just evil bigots who are attracted
to the gender critical worldview.
And in this video, I don't just wanna parody TERFs.
This time I wanna really engage with gender critical ideas
in the public arena of free speech, open communication,
dialogue, conversation, debate, idea,
marketplace, expression, discourse.
Maybe I'll even get in touch with my inner rad femme.
She's a little shy, sure, but she's here.
Not queer, reads a lot of Germaine Greer.
And when I am having a dark night of the soul sweaty,
she's feeling ex-extra biological.
And when the full moon shines, she speaks.
Oh, this is agony.
I'm a biological woman trapped
in the body of a male narcissist.
Can you imagine?
Okay, so she's a little out of touch, sure.
But she's not a bigot, you know.
I'm sure she doesn't hate trans people.
She just has a few concerns.
You know, it's like you're not even allowed
to ask questions anymore or you're accused of transphobia.
We're all just expected to conform to this gender ideology
that we, the public, never got a chance to debate.
We didn't vote for trans orthodoxy,
yet here we are allowing biological males
to run rampant in women's spaces,
foisting penises on lesbians,
and indoctrinating our children with the ludicrous dogma
that girls can become boys with a change of costume.
Oh, it rattles my chromosomes.
She goes on like that for hours.
It's like being trapped at the bottom of an elevator shaft
with the ghost of Anita Bryant.
Do you kids even know who Anita Bryant is?
Do you have any idea how many decades
I fought for your rights?
Wait, is Anita Bryant even dead?
Scholars remain divided.
It does seem like it's getting harder
to have conversations about difficult topics.
You know, our children are coming of age
in this Orwellian nightmare where you can face consequences
for simply having a politically incorrect opinion
about the Jewish question.
It's PC run AMOC.
It's a Hanna catastrophe.
Problematic banter aside,
the current discourse about transgender issues
is an explosion of untreated sewage.
We have far-right politicians menacing us
with legal discrimination and erasure.
We have fear mongering and hostility in the press.
And that, combined with high rates of family rejection
and mistreatment, puts trans people on the defensive.
So in public, we tend to stick together, concede nothing,
and shield ourselves behind simple, unambiguous slogans.
Trans women are women.
Which is true.
We are women.
But, ooh, that was a sinister but.
Watch out for that.
What happens is that people who don't really understand
trans issues, in other words, most people,
have lots of unanswered questions about the details.
In particular, people who are familiar with feminist theory,
but not transfeminism, might wonder things like,
how can you be a woman
without the oppression experiences of girlhood?
Why can't you just be a feminine man
instead of equating womanhood with sexist stereotypes?
Why are misogynistic gender ideologues
erasing the vocabulary needed to discuss female oppression?
Trans people don't like engaging with these questions
because most of the time,
they're just brandished as weapons against us.
You know, it's like when a man asks,
if society is so sexist against women,
then why is it that men are 90s
and 7% of combat fatalities, feminazis?
Like, you could sit there for three hours
trying to make a nuanced feminist rebuttal,
but wouldn't you rather just eat a bowl of thumbtacks?
Because nine times out of 10,
that guy doesn't give a shit about combat fatalities.
He's just trolling you to shut down
whatever actual point you are making.
And the same goes for people telling me,
you sure do like wearing nails and makeup.
Is that all you think there is to being a woman?
Could you define womanhood for me?
Like, they don't actually care.
They're just trying to make my life worse for 20 minutes.
But if you really are sincerely wondering
about the answer to these troll questions,
and many people are,
then you actually need fairly complicated
and nuanced answers,
which is why they make such good troll questions,
because they waste a lot of your time.
In this video, I want to take at face value
the questions and concerns associated
with gender-critical hostility to trans people,
and I want to try to give nuanced answers
rather than dogmatic ones.
Now, the problem with being nuanced is that it's hard,
so I might fuck something up.
And a lot of trans people want me to represent them
absolutely perfectly.
So, if I do fuck something up,
well, just read me to filth on Twitter
like you always do, you little shits.
Love you.
Let's watch an instructional video to learn more.
Can a man ever be as glamorous as a woman?
We have 13 beautiful women on our show today.
Only the catch is that some of them are actually men.
Oops, wrong channel.
Concern one, gender metaphysics.
There is no such thing as a man trapped in a woman's body.
There are no pink brains and blue brains.
Just because you want to be a woman
doesn't mean you are one.
This whole sacred dogma of gender identity makes no sense.
Trans people often use metaphorical language
to describe feelings that are difficult to put into words,
and that's how I understand the trapped
in the wrong body language.
Is there literally such a thing as a male soul
trapped in a female body, or vice versa?
I personally don't believe there is,
but I'm a little biased.
I sold my soul to a Sudanese businessman,
and all I got in return was this shitty ketamine habit.
As for brains, there is some evidence suggesting
a correlation between binary transgender identity
and cross-sex brain anatomy,
but the evidence really doesn't justify claims
about female brains and male bodies or anything like that.
Brain differences between men and women
are statistical averages of things
like gray and white matter density,
not, as the term female brain implies,
distinct anatomical structures like penises and vaginas.
So I personally don't believe
in any gender metaphysics at all.
I'm kind of an unorthodox trans person,
so much for the unquestionable dogma of the trans cult,
and that I think of myself as a woman who used to be a man
rather than as always having been a woman.
But it's important to remember
that while I may not fit the typical profile,
I am not real and not valid.
But in any case, I live as a woman now,
and that's kind of just what's happening
whether you like it or not, so I'm not sorry.
My view is well expressed by Katherine McKinnon.
I always thought I don't care
how someone becomes a woman or a man.
It doesn't matter to me.
Anybody who identifies as a woman,
wants to be a woman, is going around being a woman,
as far as I'm concerned, is a woman.
Concern two, gender stereotypes.
What do you mean you live as a woman?
You mean you reinforce oppressive gender stereotypes
by putting on nails, makeup, and a fake girly voice?
Listen, sweaty, first of all,
my girly voice is very fucking real.
Second, my clothes, makeup, voice,
none of this makes me a woman.
No trans woman thinks that femininity,
and womanhood are the same.
Rather, we're using a cultural language
of feminine signifiers to prompt others
to see us for what we are.
Sometimes I get the impression that my cis girlfriends
don't really understand why I'm presenting
in such a meticulously feminine way.
Like, they think I'm wearing ombre lips at 11 a.m.
because I'm playing some kind of clout game,
which I am, but also, if one person calls me sir,
that's gonna ruin my day.
So I'm desperately throwing glitter spaghetti at the wall
in hopes the light catches some glimmer of womanhood.
I think butch or gender non-conforming cis women,
sometimes side-eye hyper-feminine trans women,
because they don't identify with this vision
of womanhood at all, and they've had to struggle
since childhood against a society that's told them
they have to be feminine.
And I completely sympathize with that.
I think there should be more gender freedom,
less coercion, less restriction.
But also, I have had to fight against the same society
that told me I should really, really, really not be this.
So, I feel like we should be able to form
some kind of solidarity here.
What, what, what?
Sorry, abolish gender.
But you should be moving beyond the patriarchal constructs
of masculinity and femininity, not conforming to them.
Real feminism aims to abolish gender, not reinforce it.
Abolish gender?
Well, that sounds like an ambitious project
for one transsexual, but I mean, I'll give it a try.
Solanus be praised.
No nails, no makeup.
I'm wearing a nice little gender-neutral robe moment.
I did it, everyone.
I abolished gender.
Well, I guess long hair is still a gender signifier.
So, I should probably get rid of that.
How is she though?
She's feeling a little genderless.
I guess the way I position my body is still gendered
and there's a gendered cadence to my voice.
So, what I'm gonna do is just hold my hands up genderlessly
and speak in a genderless robot voice.
My name is 5-4-6-6-4-1-7.
I have no gender.
Patriarchy is over.
I guess English is still a patriarchal language, right?
So, I should probably be communicating
with a series of genderless sounds.
Meow, meow.
Meow, meow, meow, meow, I can't stand this.
Fuck this.
Look, maybe abolishing gender is a good idea.
Like, wouldn't it be better if your genitals at birth
didn't determine what kind of life you could live?
But that is a utopian project requiring massive systemic change,
kind of like abolish borders.
Your utopian pipe dream is valid.
And denying trans people their gender identity
because abolish gender is kind of like denying citizenship
to immigrants because abolish borders.
Like, you're targeting the people
who are the most vulnerable under the present system, and then,
leveraging that system against them
under the pretense of abolishing it.
You know, you don't see gender-critical feminists
in Kim Kardashian's Instagram comments, like,
why are you wearing a dress, Kim, you creepy misogynist?
You should be abolishing gender,
not reinforcing stereotypes designed to oppress women.
No, they don't attack the gender expression
of people with power and influence.
They're all on Twitter harassing some poor,
newly-out trans woman with 200 followers,
and calling her a creepy man,
and mocking her for being feminine ineptly,
or being too feminine, or not being feminine enough.
Like, when they say abolish gender,
what they really mean is abolish trans people.
It's almost like this is a hate movement
hiding behind a handful of pseudo-feminist platitudes.
But surely, I must be missing something.
Concern four, male privilege.
It is absolutely typical of male privilege and entitlement
that you think you can just claim womanhood for yourself
without living any of the struggle that entails.
So look, I'm a successful, white, middle-class trans woman.
In the grand scheme of things,
I'm really not very oppressed.
I may not be the 1%, but I am the tranny 1%.
So I don't like to complain
about every little micro-aggression I experience,
because under the circumstances,
it just seems a little gauche.
And I don't like things that are gauche.
But I've had cis feminists of my race and class
tell me that I have no idea what it's like
to be talked over and interrupted by men.
Actually, Kropotkin.
Or to experience street harassment,
or to have to treat every first date
like a potentially life-threatening situation.
And it's just bizarre to me that they think that.
Like, what do you think my experience in the world is?
You think men treat me as their equal?
You think street harassers are gonna treat me
with dignity and respect because I have a Y chromosome?
Hey, beautiful, where you going, baby?
Where you going?
Oh, it's tranny.
Excuse me, sir, my mistake.
Please proceed freely to your destination.
Come on, people, use your heads.
When you have Jermaine Greer calling trans women it,
what do you think the guy
in the steps of the liquor store is gonna say?
When a trans woman doesn't pass,
it's not like society simply treats her like a man.
No, you get treated as monster gender,
pronouns it and spit,
and male privilege is not a good description
of that experience at all.
Once you start passing as a woman,
it's really a step up,
even though women get treated bad,
because it's still better to be a she than an it.
Now, gender-critical feminists are really skeptical
of the whole notion of passing.
They think they can always clock a tran,
and they assume everyone else can too.
But that's just not reality.
I mean, I'm only a year and a half
into my transition,
and at this point I've had zero surgeries,
and it's been like six months
since I was last misgendered offline.
I mean, a person with a good eye for it
will probably clock me,
and maybe a lot of people have just been indoctrinated
into politically correct gender ideology,
but like, you really think the gas station attendant
and the nail technicians and the heating and plumbing guy
are all calling me miss and ma'am
because of post-modernism?
I know some of you are gonna sneak off
to your shitty little radfem forums
and obsess over how manly and clockable I am, but like,
at the end of the day, I'm a woman.
At the end of the day, what am I gonna trust?
The deranged hate posting of 25 frothing anons,
or every social interaction I've had for months?
I'm so sorry you can't handle that I'm natural fish.
I'm ahi tuna, and you're mackerel sweaty.
Take a fuckin' sip, babes.
I love that.
Concern five, male socialization.
So you had a male upbringing,
you never experienced the traumas of girlhood,
you benefited from male privilege for decades,
and now you think none of that matters?
You are because of how you were socialized,
not because of how you dress.
All right, it's time to crack open the nuance.
So on the one hand, you're partially right.
I have no idea what it's like to be catcalled
as a nine-year-old girl,
or what that does to a child's psyche.
That kind of thing didn't start happening to me
till I was an adult,
when I knew what I was getting into and was ready for it.
That's very different from what cis women go through.
My upbringing in adolescence has more in common
with a typical man than a typical woman,
and many of my experiences from those days,
I simply can't make sense of as female experiences.
I absolutely benefited from male privilege,
and it did influence who I was.
And who I was in my late teens and early 20s
was an anti-feminist shithead
who had no idea what women go through.
And I feel ashamed and alone in admitting that,
because in trans discourse,
it's just accepted as obvious that trans men
know what it's like to be raised as women,
and to be influenced by those formative female experiences.
But when it comes to the early life experiences
of trans women, we're supposed to say,
"'When I was five years old, I loved wearing my mom's high
heels,' or else say nothing at all."
There's that wonderful quotation from Sylvia Plath,
where she describes the way living as a woman
stifles an adventurous spirit
and her longing for a male experience.
Yes, my consuming desires to mingle with road crews,
sailors and soldiers, barroom regulars,
to be part of a scene, anonymous, listening, recording.
All this is spoilt by the fact that I am a girl,
a female, always supposedly in danger,
of assault and battery.
My consuming interest in men and their lives
is often misconstrued as a desire to seduce them,
or as an invitation to intimacy.
Yes, God, I want to talk to everybody as deeply as I can.
I want to be able to sleep in an open field,
to travel west, to walk freely at night."
So I got to do all of that in my early twenties.
And what I discovered is I hate sleeping in open fields.
I despise the West.
And I'd really rather stay inside,
collecting ceramics and sucking dick.
Now I'm not saying that makes me a woman.
And I'm not saying that Sylvia Plath is a man
because she wanted to slam back brewskis with road crews
for reasons that are inconceivable to me.
What I am saying is that when I hit my mid-twenties,
I realized that I was inhabiting a gender, body,
and sexual persona that were drastically wrong for me.
And I tried every possible alternative to transitioning
before realizing that I had an irrepressible need
to become a woman.
So I changed.
And when I changed,
society's treatment of me changed.
Socialization doesn't end with childhood.
It's a lifelong process.
For example, when I transitioned,
my friends, family, fans, enemies, stalkers,
and radical feminist haters started commenting
on my physical appearance about 20 to 30 times more often.
And I had to get used to that being something
that matters a lot more.
That said, resocialization takes time.
And sometimes trans people who are early in transition
have most of that process ahead of them.
I also think we have to take into account
the age at which a person transitions.
I'm Petrus, whomst we stan.
Oh, we stan.
We stan.
Oh, we stan.
I stan.
Oh, we stan.
She transitioned as a child,
and I imagine was socialized more or less
the same as a cis woman.
Whereas, Caitlyn Jenner, whomst, well,
just whomst.
She made millions of dollars in men's sports.
She had six children by three wives.
She transitioned in retirement at age 65
and told Buzzfeed that the hardest part of being a woman
is figuring out what to wear.
This is the only trans woman most people have heard of.
It makes me want to cry.
Like, I'm not saying that Caitlyn Jenner isn't a woman,
but I am saying that anyone who wants to argue
that male privilege hasn't shaped her perspective
doesn't have a leg to stand on.
But also, trans women often don't experience
male socialization the way cis men do.
Many trans women are feminine and queer
before they transition and have always experienced
a kind of femphobia that is rooted in misogyny.
Some trans women also identified as women
years before transitioning and internalized
society's messaging about women
more than society's messaging about men.
Now, that's still not the same
as living in society as a girl from birth,
but it's also pretty different
from the socialization of most cis men.
I think the reason some trans women feel the need to argue
that trans women never experience male privilege
is that a lot of TERFs use male privilege
as a proxy for calling us men.
Pull up your zipper.
Your male privilege is hanging out.
I suspect the reason this is such a major talking point
for many gender-critical feminists
is that there's an element here of stolen valor,
the sense of injustice that people are claiming
their identity without experiencing it.
It reminds me of what in the trans community
are called transmedicalists,
people who insist the only real trans people
are those who experience agonizing dysphoria.
In both cases, there's a sense that the essential thing
that confirms your identity is pain.
What it is to be trans is to despise your body.
What it is to be a woman is to be brutalized by men.
You didn't suffer like I've suffered.
You don't know what it's like.
You know, I'm tempted to strike back
by saying that you don't know what it's like
to occupy an identity so stigmatized
that you don't know what it's like to occupy an identity so stigmatized
that you don't know what it's like to occupy an identity so stigmatized
that most of the people who are attracted to you in private
are too ashamed to admit it in public.
You don't know what it's like to have a body so non-normative
that you're shut out of whole areas of society.
I could go on, but this America's Next Top Victim contest
does nothing but to provoke infighting
between trans women and cis women
at a time when we should be marching side-by-side
to destroy video games forever.
Hashtag yes all gamers.
Concerned sex, reproductive oppression.
You don't know what it's like
to grow up being shamed for your periods,
to fear unwanted pregnancy,
to have to fight for your right to abortion,
to bear the pain of childbirth.
Well, yeah, that's true.
My inner Rad Femme sways in a gentle, victorious samba.
I do think it's important for trans women
to stand in solidarity with cis women
on issues like period equity and abortion rights,
and to learn about the experiences of cis women
to form a more complete understanding
of the female condition.
But of course, no individual woman experiences
all the things women experience,
and individual women understand the meaning of womanhood.
In drastically different ways.
For some women, having babies
is the most essentially womanly experience.
For others, maybe it's having an abortion.
I mean, not actually, but you know,
TERFs pretend it is to own the trannies.
For me, it's receiving 12-paragraph emails
in my business inbox from married men
struggling through the existential crisis
of some kind of shemale-themed sexual awakening.
Also, do you wanna be a guest
on my podcast, Free Speech Radio?
But also, not all women experience their womanhood
as essentially oppressive,
or centered around the pain of reproductive health.
And that's not the only reason
I'm not talking about the gender gap.
I'm talking about the gender gap
in the capacity of men.
When Shania Twain sang,
Man, I Feel Like a Woman,
she wasn't talking about having a coat hanger abortion
in the bathroom of a Greyhound station in Chattanooga.
Man, I feel like shit.
Concern seven, erasing female vocabulary.
Trans activists are erasing the vocabulary needed
to discuss women's bodies and women's oppression.
We are now expected to talk about pregnant people
and menstruators just to appease the gender ideologues.
I'm a menstruator.
I am a W-O-M-B-Y-N,
and I will not be erased.
Okay, if you've heard the terms menstruator or pregnant people
and are thinking,
what the fuck kind of Orwellian newspeak
gender cuckoldry is that?
Take a deep breath, clear your mind, here's the tea.
Some medical organizations have recently begun using the term
pregnant people instead of pregnant women.
And in 2016, Planned Parenthood included the word menstruators
in a tweet about the repeal of a tampon tax.
This prompted some conservative TERF and Christian publications
to post panicked commentaries warning that the entire concept of womanhood is being erased.
But in fact, medical language that assumes that everyone with a uterus is a woman
erases trans men or non-binary people who menstruate and get pregnant.
So saying pregnant women in this context erases them,
whereas saying pregnant people includes them and cis women
and doesn't erase anyone.
Except for...
...Cincinnatians, because we all know they're not people.
Take your shitty chili elsewhere, but I'm a woman,
not a goddamn menstruator.
What kind of misogynistic madness is it to reduce women to their capacity to bleed?
I actually agree with you that the word menstruator sounds pretty dehumanizing,
and the trans men I've talked to about this aren't the biggest fans of it either.
Sometimes it takes a while to settle on language that's both inclusive and usable,
and my prediction is that menstruators is not gonna work out.
Maybe people who menstruate?
But why can't I just say woman?
That's what I am.
You can't just say woman.
That is what you are.
I'm just asking that you stop referring to yourself as a woman.
Institutional medical language is designed to be inclusive and therefore impersonal.
No one is proposing that we stop calling individual women pregnant women or expectant mothers.
Your obvious misogyny is nakedly exposed.
I notice it's only female anatomy you're trying to erase.
I notice you're not suggesting doctors start saying people with prostates.
Though I am definitely suggesting that.
But trans activists are invading feminist spaces and telling women we can't discuss our own bodies.
I have no problem with cis feminists discussing or celebrating periods
or wearing pussy hats at political marches or free bleeding all over the National Mall.
I mean, someone has to.
The National Mall is not gonna bleed on itself.
I totally get why cis feminists would want to celebrate their reproductive anatomy
in defiance of a society that routinely shames and subjugates them for it.
The problem arises only when menstruation or reproductive anatomy are used to misgender trans men
or exclude wombs whom doth not bleed.
I mean, trans women do bleed.
But only when we cut ourselves.
No one knows what it's like to be a sad tran.
Concern 8.
TERF is a slur.
TERF is a slur designed to silence women.
Nay, it is hate speech designed to incite violence against women.
The word TERF is a pejorative for a person who dresses up transphobia with radical feminism.
But it's not a slur.
A slur is a pejorative that targets someone's race, religion, gender, or sexuality.
The word misogynist is pejorative, it has only negative connotations,
and is often used as an insult, but it's not a slur.
It targets bigoted behavior and beliefs, not a type of person.
The same is true of the word TERF.
It's a derogatory term for beliefs and behaviors that deserve to be derogated.
The term gender critical is really a euphemism,
recently created to replace TERF with a phrase that doesn't have such negative connotations.
It's perfectly analogous to the phrase race realist,
which was invented by racists wanting a
more flattering and respectable description of their beliefs.
I've used the term gender critical in this video to be inviting to fence-sitters,
but I refuse to cooperate with racists who want me to use their euphemisms,
and I generally do the same with TERFs.
Now, I'm a very agreeable, non-confrontational person.
I usually like to call people by whatever they want to be called.
But when it comes to race realist or gender critical,
every time I use these phrases,
I'm essentially becoming an accomplice in their scheme to legitimize bigotry.
And I have especially...
little patience for TERF requests for linguistic decorum,
since most of the language used by TERFs is specifically designed to be maximally hurtful,
harmful, and insulting to trans people.
For instance, TERFs refer to any and all trans-related surgery as mutilation.
They call trans women TIMs, an acronym for trans-identified males,
and trans men TIFs, trans-identified females,
obviously with the intent of mockery and misgendering.
Just to give you a sample of typical TERF
prose, here are a couple comments from literally the first thread I saw
on the Gender Critical subreddit while I was working on this video.
And I have to admit to considerably more contempt for the likes of
since he makes a point of taking selfies with ridiculous,
insulting-to-women facial expressions.
I also get a good laugh at TIMs putting their hands up to their chins.
They're trying to look all dainty and to hide their Adam's apple,
but it only draws more attention to their
ENORMAL
MISS MAN hands.
I saw an AGP photoshoot with this neanderthal in his 50s,
was posing with one leg up like a flamingo,
his hands dainty at his ear,
in every photo,
even group ones at events.
Now I was just grossed out.
So there it is.
That's what this is really about.
In this video, I've gone through a list of gender critical concerns,
and I've provided responses I hope the average person will find fair.
But I would be lying to you by omission,
if I were to end this video without being real with you
about what the core of the gender critical movement is actually about.
See what TERFs do in public is advance what, on the surface,
are a series of feminist critiques of trans people.
For example, the critique that hyperfeminine trans women
are reinforcing misogynistic stereotypes designed to oppress women.
At a glance, this appears to be a critique of the way some trans women behave and present themselves.
But in the next breath, these same TERFs will argue that trans women are mannish, unfeminine perverts
who are forcing masturbation on them.
So if trans women being feminine is bad,
and trans women being masculine is bad,
then there really is no way that trans women could behave that TERFs would accept.
So in fact, what TERFs really oppose is not trans women being feminine,
or trans women being masculine,
but trans women being trans women.
In other words, the fundamental issue underlying all these phony concerns is transphobia.
Simple animosity towards trans people's very existence.
And it's pretty easy to recognize,
just from the tone they use when they talk about us.
When you read through the gender-critical subreddit or TERF Twitter,
what you see is just the flimsiest cloak of feminist platitudes
draped over a jagged thorn tangle of visceral disgust and targeted hate.
The pure, exuberant malice of it all is not even disguised in the Germaine Greer quote
from the opening of this video, or in the average gender-critical forum post.
The enormous, knuckly, hairy, beringed paw.
The pancake makeup through which the stubble,
was already burgeoning.
This Neanderthal in his fifties.
Ridiculous, insulting to women facial expressions.
Now I was just grossed out.
What gender-critical feminism really amounts to is a baroque palace of rationalizations
built on a foundation of pure disgust.
In this respect, it's just like homophobia.
You know, I came of age when gay marriage was the most contentious social debate,
and the arguments people made,
that marriage was under attack,
that the children would be traumatized,
that bestiality would be next,
that this tiny minority was undermining all our institutions with their outrageous demands,
it was all just nonsense.
If you got a conservative drunk, as I used to be able to do,
Sylvia, I wish I could give you what I had,
he would just blurt out the truth,
which was that the sight of two grown men locking lips made him wanna vom.
Homophobia and transphobia do not originate in the frontal cortex.
They come from the lizard brain disgust response we evolved to deal with blood,
infection, vomit, fear.
It's a disgust I can recognize at a glance,
because it's the same disgust I felt toward myself for years.
It's the disgust I felt when I clocked a trans woman on the L platform in Chicago five years ago,
and decided then and there to abandon my first attempt at transition.
It's the disgust I still struggle against every day.
It's the disgust that's always at the bottom of transphobia,
because transphobia is the only thing that's ever going to stop you from moving forward.
It's the disgust that's always at the bottom of transphobia,
because transphobia is the only thing that's ever going to stop you from moving forward.
It's the disgust that's always at the bottom of transphobia,
because transphobia is always the same.
It always comes from the same place, and it's always expressed in the same kinds of ways.
I recently rewatched that classic viral video from an old episode of Cops,
where a police officer humiliates a Native American trans woman named Stephanie Yellowhair.
The power-tripping cop demands to see her ID, misgenders her,
deadnames her, mocks her clothes and makeup, and calls her a cross-dresser.
It's all so repetitive and familiar.
It's the same arsenal of petty sadism you see in the right-wing press,
on 4chan, on doxxing forums, on gender-critical Reddit, it's all the same.
What everyone remembers about Stephanie Yellowhair
is her unbreakable wit and confidence in the face of transphobic abuse.
The single most iconic moment is when,
after being grilled in the back of the cop car amid a flurry of deadnaming and misgendering,
she glances back at the cop and says,
Excuse my beauty.
Excuse your beauty.
Okay.
And that, right there, is the single greatest quality of transfeminine culture,
the resilience of trans women, the assumption of a regal posture,
and even the most abject conditions.
And that's really all you can do, because there's just no reasoning a transphobe out of bigotry.
So, to any die-hard gender-critical feminists still watching this,
what else can I say except, on behalf of all trans women,
excuse my beauty,
TERF.

Tongue pop is not the solution to every problem.
Or is it?
I posted an invitation to Twitter
for people who used to be gender-critical feminists
to chew me in the back of the head.
It's PC run AMAC.
AMAC.
Look at it.
Okay.
It's so stupid.
It's so stupid.
Run AMAC.
Corona Premier.
See?
Turf beer of choice.
My chromosomes need to unwind
after a hard day of hating trans people.
It is absa...
These titties.
I just saw them and I just lost it.
I just...
It's just...
What?
I-M-A-W-M-B-Y-N.
You do know how I struggle with spelling.
V-I-Z-T-R-O-Y.
No one knows what it's like
to be a sad,
trian,
to be a trashcan
for trap chasers,
jizz.
