Imagine how a woman feels. Imagine how soft and warm her skin feels. Imagine the
sweet smell of her perfume. Imagine her tenderly pressing her soft lips against
yours. Imagine her letting you get on top of her and insert your p***s inside her,
softly moaning as it slides in. Imagine the walls of her tight, soft, warm p***s wrapped
around every inch of your c***. Imagine her breathing getting heavier with every
thrust. Imagine her wrapping her arms and legs around you, holding you as close as
she possibly can and begging you to c*** inside her as you release every ounce of
your c***.
Then imagine the feeling of pure satisfaction and peace that comes afterwards and looking
beside you to see a person that cares about you and has accepted you in the most intimate
way possible.
You will never get to experience this because your skeleton is too small or the bones in
your face are too small.
You will never get to experience this because you are not the proper shape.
You will never get to experience this because you are not the proper shape.
Have a nice day.
Hello boys.
Let's talk about bone structure.
There is something basically Soviet about the way the internet names things.
Stalin had portmanteaus like Agitprop, Politburo and Kompromat.
And we have Wevelet.
You know.
webinar, podcast, and incel, short for involuntary celibate.
The word incel was invented in the late 90s
by a lonely bisexual called Alana,
who created a website called
Alana's Involuntary Celibacy Project
that was essentially a safe space
for people who just couldn't get it in.
But in our own miserable moment of internet history,
the word incel refers to a more specific community
of mostly heterosexual men centered around forums
like incel.me and r slash brain cells.
This group has recently gotten a lot of bad press
because for the last few years,
they've been churning out mass murderers
faster than Marvel can make Avengers movies.
But most incels aren't violent killers.
They're just men who've formed an identity
around not getting laid.
In this video, I don't want to mock incels
or lecture them or even sympathize with them.
I just want to understand who they are
and why they're like this.
To start with, sometimes the best way
to understand a person's world is to learn their language.
And the language of the incels,
well,
you'll see.
First base, incelese.
Does it ever bother you that the word women
makes adult females sound just a little bit too human?
Well, incels have a solution to that.
They've taken to calling women femoines.
The choice of vocabulary tells us
how incels think of women,
not as sisters or mothers
and certainly not as autonomous people,
but as a kind of foreign and scrutable object
comparable to a natural resource, an optenium,
to which incels believe all men
are entitled and to which they feel
they have been unjustly denied.
There's a long tradition of nerdy men
talking about women in nerdily misogynistic ways.
I'm reminded of famed rocket scientist
Werner von Braun's remark about female astronauts.
We are reserving 110 pounds of payload
for recreational equipment.
Which is not to say that alpha males
are less misogynistic than nerds,
but simply that nerds have a nerdy style of misogyny.
Now, femoid is about as neutral a term as incels have,
for women, and it's only downhill from there.
There's the usual standbys, bitches, sluts, whores,
all conveying a searing resentment of female sexuality,
the pinnacle of which is represented
by the bespoke incel coinage, roasty,
which I'm sorry to inform you,
refers to the incel belief that the human vulva
become mutilated through repeated penetration
by different men, though not through repeated penetration
by the same man, interestingly,
and thereby come to resemble roast beef.
Now, by definition, incels haven't actually observed
any vaginas, but to incels, anatomy is more a matter
of metaphysical speculation than crude science.
Though if you ask me, the right metaphor
for a veteran vag is not roast beef, but sour grapes.
Of course, not all femoids are created equal.
There are various subspecies.
The becky, or normie, femoid is to be contrasted
with the stacy, or sexually desirable femoid,
whose distinguishing features include makeup,
a slightly more masculine look,
a more masculine style of hair,
and a more Improvised look.
Stacy, on point, never works a day in her life.
Naturally curvy body gives men instant erections,
big tits and ass show fertility.
Leave my buns alone, you savages!
The stacy, naturally, has a male counterpart,
whom incels call the chad.
A chad is a hunky alpha whose hands are always prepared
to grab nearby fertile pussy.
He has a sloped forehead with a strong brow,
ram-bow chin, strong jawline, flat occipital plate.
It must needs be remarked that the skull of the Chad
exhibiteth a brow-ridge most pronounced,
whereas the skull of the Virgin is most inadequate in this regard,
predisposing such specimens to an abject existence of lamentation and cuckoldry.
It's time to talk about bone structure.
According to a classic incel meme,
The difference between Chad and non-Chad is literally a few millimeters of bone.
I would like to propose a sociological theory.
Farpington's Law.
Once bigotry or self-loathing permeate a given community,
it is only a matter of time before deep metaphysical significance
is assigned to the shape of human skulls.
Why skulls, you ask?
Well, the best explanation I can come up with
is that a skull is inanimate and unchangeable.
It's therefore the perfect symbol of the intrinsic and permanent characteristics
that bigots like to assign to certain groups of people.
If you believe, for example, that a certain race or gender is intellectually inferior,
you can justify your belief by pointing to the shape of a skull and saying,
Well, that's the reason why.
It's just nature.
There's nothing that can be done about it.
And that is exactly the way incels think about love and celibacy.
Mankind is divided into two groups of people.
The chads with the fuckable skulls
and the incels whose bones come up a few millimeters short.
Corndog, anyone?
I'm really hungry.
Of course, it's not just the skulls the incels blame for their sexlessness.
They have a whole dictionary of jargon explaining the causes of involuntary celibacy.
Height cells are inceled due to their inferior stature,
whereas mental cells can't attract women because of mental illness or autism,
or they're addicts and then called drug cells.
Wrist cells, on the other hand, are doomed by their overly delicate wrists.
Now, obsessing about your wrist size does seem a little weird.
Oh, yeah?
Is it a little weird that the average dildo has more girth than my wrist?
Is it weird at all that some men have thicker dicks than my wrist?
But yeah, obviously,
obsessing about my tiny wrists that are smaller than even many women's is completely irrational body dysmorphia.
And the reason why no one wants to be with me or even talk to me is my shitty personality.
Even though,
literal 80 IQ men who have nothing to talk about except who won the game last night
are still able to attract a loving partner.
Interesting.
A significant number of incels are not white,
in which case their unfuckability is attributed to race,
and they are accordingly termed apologies in advance,
black cells,
rice cells, curry cells, and so on.
Which is not to say that all non-white men are celibate.
There are, of course, the occasional chads of color with their superior skills,
skulls, and towering stature,
whom the incels have christened Tyrones, Changs, and Chadpreets.
I'm so sorry.
So you can be incel because of your looks, your height, your mind, or your race,
but what unites them all is the conviction that love and sex are forever out of reach.
Unless, of course, you delusionally imagine that you can ascend,
that is, escape your inceldom.
If you falsely and pathetically believe that there is any possibility of improvement,
well, that makes you the lowest of the low.
A sad and sorry hope-cel.
Second base, the red pill.
So we have the building blocks of the incel worldview,
the stacys, the chads, the incels, and the normies.
From these elements, incels have constructed a theory of human nature and sexuality,
which they call the red pill.
Incels share the red pill worldview with the rest of the manosphere,
that is, pick-up artists, men's rights activists,
and the voluntary celibate community known as Men Going Their Own Way,
abbreviated MGTOW.
According to red pill theory, women are by nature hypergamous.
Hypergamy, new Greek for marrying above,
refers to the practice of seeking relationships with men above one's social status,
and also, in incel usage, above one's attractiveness.
According to incels, physical attractiveness is naturally distributed equally between the sexes.
So, if you were to assign numerical ratings to attractiveness, as incels like to do,
there would be about as many, say, 8 out of 10 women, as 8 out of 10 men.
Incels believe that in a just world, a 5 out of 10 man would naturally wind up in a relationship with his looks match,
that is, a 5 out of 10 woman, equivalently attractive to himself.
But sadly, this just system has been ruined by hypergamous women,
who, regardless of their own attractiveness, are only interested in dating Chad.
Incels sometimes call this the 80-20 rule,
the idea that only the top 20% of men will ever be desired by women.
Now, since most heterosexual men do end up being attracted to men,
you might be raising your eyebrow at that idea.
But incels have an explanation.
According to the red pill theory, women often pursue a mating strategy called alpha-fucks-beta-bucks.
This means that in her 20s, a woman will, as incels say,
ride the cock carousel, sleeping with as many chads as possible.
But as she ages into her 30s, she will settle down with a beta-normie whom she's not really attracted to,
but whom she will use for financial support,
all the while continuously cuckolding him on the alpha-cock carousel.
Before inevitably abandoning him, taking him for everything he's worth in a divorce settlement,
and running off to the Mediterranean with all the children and a new chad boyfriend,
while the beta-cock is left behind to fester in alimony payments, solitude, and poverty.
So the upshot of the red pill theory is that for men, there are three possible outcomes.
Either you're an incel, doomed to a lifetime of excruciating loneliness and resentment,
or you're a normie, destined to wind up in a sexless marriage with an unfaithful wife,
who will divorce you, win custody of the children, and run off with all your money.
Or you could be an alpha, an independent, promiscuous man,
who sleeps with lots of women and forms attachments to none of them.
In the red pill philosophy, there are two ways to become alpha.
The first is simply to be a chad by nature.
The second is to become a pickup artist.
Red-pilled pickup artists believe basically the same things about women that incels believe,
that they are hypergamous, duplicitous, and fuckable, but not lovable.
The difference is that pickup artists are not celibate.
In fact, they try to have sex with women.
They try to have sex with as many women as possible by following a series of strategies
and scripts known as game, as described by the book of that title, as well as by the
red-pilled pickup artist, Roosh V, author of a book called Bang, a new mascara from
Benefit.
So, the tube is bomb, I am living, let's see what the wand looks like.
Oh.
It's so big.
I wonder what Roosh is up to lately.
I bake my own bread.
Yes, I am outing myself as a baker.
As someone who likes to cook.
I'm not a woman.
I am ultra-masculine as you can see, but baking and cooking in general is a scientific thing.
And men like scientific things.
I used to be a, a scientist.
Well, Roosh, you know what?
If it means you leave women alone, I hope you enjoy your new life as an ultra-masculine
baker.
Sorry, I mean bread scientist.
So remember, the red pill is the realization that women are hypergamous by nature, 20%
or less of men are really attractive to women.
Dating is a sexual marketplace, and feminism is a pretext for enabling women to behave
however they want while consigning men to emasculation and impotence.
The black pill is the additional realization that one's place in the sexual marketplace
is genetically determined, that one is a permanent virgin, that sex and relationships are forever
out of reach, and hence that happiness is impossible, and there's nothing one can
do except lie down and rot.
The black pill is essentially dogmatic hopelessness about dating, and about life in general.
It's the pinnacle of what psychotherapists call sexism.
It's the pinnacle of what psychotherapists call sexism.
It's called catastrophizing, a cognitive distortion where anxiety or depression leads
you to infer apocalyptic conclusions from mundane setbacks and anxieties.
For instance, a catastrophizing person might begin with the thought, oh no, I'm gonna
be late for work, and from there infer, my boss is gonna be angry, I'm gonna lose
my job, I'm not gonna be able to get another job, I'm gonna be unemployed forever, my
family will starve, oh god, we're all gonna die.
Each step in this sequence is sort of plausible, but the leap from step one to step seven is
completely absurd.
This is exactly how the black pill works.
You start with experiences of rejection and isolation.
From there, you infer that you are unattractive to women, that you will never be attractive
to any woman, that you will be forever alone, that you will always be unhappy, that women
did this to you, that feminism empowered women to do this to you, that the social trends
that made this possible are only getting worse, that humanity itself is doomed and your only
option is to lie down and rot.
Of course, not all incels take things quite so far, but a lot of them do.
On incel forums, suicidal ideation is very common, and posts are often tagged suafuel
or ropefuel.
This is what they make you want to kill yourself, usually because they're reminders of how hopeless
the incel situation is, or how devastating it is that incels are missing out on the incredible
bliss of sex and romance.
Now if you suggest to incels that posting suafuel on forums already populated by lonely
and depressed people is maybe not the most responsible idea, they respond that oh it's
just dark humor, it's just a cope, throw us a bone here, but a lot of the suicidal stuff
shows no signs of humor, and it's common to see people express pretty extreme states of
depression, which is not surprising.
Since hopelessness is the logical conclusion of the black-pill worldview.
One's possibility for happiness is determined by the genetics of height, frame, and facial
bone structure.
And if you don't have these gifts, there's no relief but to cope or rope.
Now it's pretty tempting to just mom the shit out of these kids.
You want to grab them by their black ops t-shirts, shake them a bit, and tell them there are
millions of men with small wrists and weak chins getting laid every day, that they're
their own worst enemies, that they need to get off the computer, go outside, make some
friends, stop hating women, get some hobbies, and who knows?
Make some money.
Maybe they'll develop a disposition that women find a little more approachable.
Essentially, you want to tell them, clean your room, bucko.
In fact, for the young men in this demographic who are receptive to that kind of advice,
Jordan Peterson is probably helpful, because he's telling them a lot of what they need
to hear, and he's kind of a sexist old man, so they might actually listen.
But most incels don't want to hear this kind of advice.
In fact, they view it as essentially a microaggression.
You are, in effect, chad-splaining their oppression to them, when you give basic advice like take
a shower, be more confident.
To people who've already experienced a lifetime of rejection and isolation, and who believe
they've already tried everything.
So they despise this kind of advice, and devote endless posts to bitterly mocking the futility
and insensitivity of it.
Just go out to parties, bro.
Instead of hating on women all day, why don't you losers just try being confident?
Like this average looking guy.
Confidence is key.
You incels need some hobbies.
Try reading some books.
Women love intelligence.
It works for me, bro.
Aw.
I need to get out.
No one knows what it's like to be hated.
To incels, their worldview seems ironclad, and has built-in defenses against anyone who
would try to change their minds.
So if you want to understand incels, and in particular, if you want to understand why
their community produces so many mass murderers, you have to understand that the black pill
is more than the dogma that you can't get laid.
It's also the dogma that because you can't get laid, you can never be happy.
So what we have in our hands here is this.
It's not just a bunch of angry internet misogynists.
It's at worst a kind of death cult, complete with an eternal hell and an omnipotent enemy.
It is not surprising that that state of mind leads a few of them to conclude that since
triumph is impossible, why not try revenge?
Third base.
Tinder is garbage.
I know I said I wasn't going to sympathize with incels, and I know they don't want my
sympathy anyway, and I know it's bad praxis to sympathize with the devil.
But on some level, I can't help it.
The internet is for introverts, so I'm sure a lot of people watching this feel the same
way.
I bet some of you have been this guy.
I have been this guy.
So look, I'm going to tell you something I've never really come out about on this channel,
so this is like a really vulnerable moment for me, but I used to live as a man.
And I'm not proud of that, but I'm ready to move on if you're ready to forgive.
I'm in the unusual situation of being a woman who dates men who used to be a man who dates women.
What kind of fucked up shit is that?
Is that even allowed?
Alright, cop down lesbian stans, I'm still attracted to women.
And those who lieth betwixt.
Cats.
The inherent eroticism of the sea.
Mmm, yeah.
Don't you just want to get in there?
Take me, mommy.
But I have been on a heterosexual kick lately.
I gotta get my hetero on.
What I'm getting at is I've used Tinder both as a man seeking women and as a woman seeking
men.
And that gives me some relevant experiences.
When you're a man, the strategy is you've gotta send a lot of messages, because women
get a lot of messages, and then you just gotta try to be less of an ogre than the other fuckboys.
Whereas if you're a woman, you get to lie recumbent on your chaise longue and receive
the inquiries.
Let's see how we're doing here.
How many men have liked me on Tinder?
I'm paying $30 for this information, so this better be good.
I have 2,500 likes.
That's a lot of Baltimore.
That's a lot of Baltimore.
That's a lot of Baltimore-ian men who swiped right on a tran.
What a divine city.
Oh, that's so nice of them to be interested in me.
Let's see what kind of messages I got.
Dick or no dick?
Pre-op or post-op?
Did you cut your dick off?
Oh my god.
I'm gonna cut it off, okay?
Jesus.
I will let you smash my pussy so, so hard if you just be patient.
It's a whole process.
That's not a pussy.
That's a fuckhole.
You'll never know what it's like to squeeze life out of your sacred passage.
Well, that's true.
I'm not gonna be squeezing any life out unless something goes very seriously wrong, and I
assure you that none of the passages I have down there have ever been or ever will be
sacred.
Abigail, leave my fuckhole out of this.
When I first started using this app, I was messaging with a guy who seemed super chill.
He was gonna take me to a concert.
I was like, it seems like a lot for a first date, but we'll try it.
He was like, you know what?
I don't know.
I don't know.
I'm gonna try it.
Fifteen minutes after we agreed to that, he sends me a message.
What color panties are you wearing?
I would love to smell them.
Can we get coffee first?
The hell of it is, I probably would've let him smell my panties, but this is the thing
you bring up on the third fuck.
You don't open with panty sniffing.
Like, the only point of in-app messaging is for me to figure out if you're gonna murder
me.
And you're already fucking it up.
So this is the experience of women on Tinder.
we're drowning in dick and most of it is terrible not all i do have some very sweet messages and i
haven't been using the app in a couple months so if i didn't respond to you or if we didn't match
it's not because i rejected you it's because i don't like the app people screenshot my profile
and they post it online and they call me contra points and like i'm just too famous for this shit
my life is hard so girls we do a lot of complaining about the firing squad of bad
dicks that's constantly pointed at us in dating apps but how would you feel if instead of that
you were just getting radio silence like the incels get i can't speak for other women but
personally i prefer the firing squad of dicks you know at least these pricks care enough about my
pussy to be an asshole about my dick i feel sorry for men on dating apps i really do you have to
deal with a lot of rejection and that must be difficult these apps are especially brutal to
people who aren't photogenic if you're meeting people at a bar or a party you might strike
up a conversation with someone who you're not initially physically attracted to but then
maybe they're super funny or charming or maybe they're attracted to me and that's an attractive
quality in another person that they appreciate how beautiful i am but on tinder you're just
browsing a catalog of faces and gatekeeping who even gets to talk to you in the first place
red pillars have a really gross way of talking about dating in terms of sexual market value
but like dating kind of is a marketplace or at least you can analyze it like one and our culture
is so visual and these apps are so picture centered that bone structure like it's not the
only thing that matters but it matters a great deal and this is where i do have sympathy for
the incels because as a trans woman i know what it's like to obsess over millimeters of bone
i actually had to interrupt work on this video to go to a consultation for facial feminization
surgery so i can pay luxury car amounts of money to shave off a few millimeters of bone here and
there because it must needs be remarked that the skull of the female exhibited
a brow ridge less pronounced i mean i'm just as obsessed with bone structure as the goddamn
men cells because i think certain parts of my face make me look like a man and i worry about
it every day we're all obsessed with the bones honey we all have bones inside us we all love
touching bones you want to take a measurement from the supraorbital ridge to the lambdoid suture
and multiply that figure by pi to calculate what we call the chat circumference
why is no one talking to me?
why is no one talking about the chad circumference?
fourth base just the tip there's another way i think my experience as a trans woman is relevant
to the incel discussion and that's that i recognize delusional self-loathing when i see it
i'm far from the first to point out that the supreme gentleman incel mass murderer elliot
roger was apart from his narcissistic psychopath personality an eminently bangable twink i'm not
going to show you pictures of incels but on their forums they do sometimes post selfie threads
and you can't say this on incel forums without enraging them but in confidence from one pretend
clinician to another let me tell you that the truth about incels is that almost all of them
are completely normal looking guys but of course that's not the feedback they get from other incels
the feedback they get is that their chins are weak their hair is thin their skin is
garbage and there's no hope whatsoever no woman will ever love them and there are
true cells with no option but to lie down and rot and the interesting thing is those guys pose for
selfies to those threads knowing that's the kind of feedback they're gonna get so why why do they
do it well i'll tell you a little story there is a website on the internet called 4chan.org
that has a board called lgbt a few years ago this was used mainly by the 25 gay men who
actually like milo yiannopoulos but recently it's used mostly by men who are entertaining
the notion of becoming women and by early transition trans women
the board is jokingly called tttt now i've recently moved beyond that first stage of my transition
but the memory is still fresh and let me tell you it is a painful awkward humiliating stage of life
so the trans women of tttt are tragic they're basically still in man mode which is why they're
using 4chan and i bring them up because they remind me a lot of incels for incels the core
frustration is that they can't get laid for tttt it's that they can't get laid they can't get laid
they can't pass as female both groups post selfies knowing they're going to get brutal
unconstructive feedback and both groups have a weird vocabulary with which to express their
anxieties for instance on tttt a major piece of jargon is hun a slur used by trans women
for other trans women which basically means that you look like a man in a dress
which is what every trans woman is afraid of and there's another commonality with incels too
with all bigots and self-loathers which if you've been paying attention
you've already seen it
already guessed
you will never be seen as a woman because of your head size
have all the surgeries in the world your massive man noggin will stay the same
lel this freak thinks he has very soft facial features his head is huge lel
and the huns on reddit are hug boxing him and telling him that there are women with big heads
uh no there aren't there aren't women with heads that do that and ffs won't change you might
as well repress you transition with a man's head you will be clocked you will be looked at as a
freak
will never be seen as a woman
100%
this is why i'm not transitioning
thank you skull people for showing me the way and that no matter what i do i will always be
a manly man skull wise you saved me the embarrassment of being a literal
big-headed man in the dress
it is evident the cranial vault of the autogynephile be much more voluminous and the
facial plane wider be one with you at last rights do i hold a war Joanna uso what the real Amy wrote
was that fade worse visible I liked erasными man as a female. guten like that man wouldn't crack up.
It always comes back to the skulls. Every time.
The other interesting thing about TTTT is I used to get posted there a lot.
For a while I had some stans on the board who basically viewed me as inspiration.
Yikes. Because of course that kind of post is frowned upon.
If I'm not looked at as a big skulled manly freak, if my transition is going well,
that means that some of their transitions might go well too.
And that is an unacceptable conclusion for a community founded on self-loathing and hopelessness.
So it was necessary for the rest of the board to explain why I didn't pass,
why I would never pass, and why anyone who looked less good than me
shouldn't even fucking think about it.
They shouldn't transition at all. They should just repress.
They should lie down and rot.
And I used to read this stuff all the time.
Like, I would specifically seek out threads about me.
Which might seem strange, considering I had hundreds of fans telling me I was a gorgeous
goddess every day.
So,
why did I turn away from that?
To intentionally seek out this dismal den of Huns talking about how my giant Hun skull is
clockable at a thousand paces and my voice sounds like a ridiculous Muppet falsetto hybrid
of Mickey Mouse and Winnie the Pooh.
Well, basically there was part of my brain that just simply refused to believe it when
people told me I was gorgeous.
And for semi-plausible reasons.
A lot of trans people on the internet tell other trans people they look gorgeous no matter
what they look like.
That's where the word Hun
comes from.
You look great, Hun.
So what TTTT is saying about Reddit hugboxing is true to some extent.
There is a kind of a priori and dogmatic flattery that prevails in some trans spaces.
So I came to regard all compliments as everyone is beautiful.
Politically correct cuckoldry.
And there would be this thrill of going to TTTT and reading other people saying what
my deepest anxieties told me was really true.
And that was always painful, but there was a kind of
pleasure, too.
There was a rush.
It's exciting.
To burst out of the politically correct bubble and say what you're really thinking.
That personality doesn't matter because big skulled chads get all the girls.
That ContraPoints is a big skulled Hun with a voice like nails on a shockboard.
And at first I justified the habit by telling myself I was just doing research.
I have to keep tabs on what the bigots are saying.
It's simply my job.
But soon I realized it wasn't just research.
And it was infecting me away from the computer.
This ridiculous vocabulary.
Huns.
AGP.
It was popping up in my head at unexpected times.
It was starting to color how I thought about myself.
And worse, it was starting to infect how I thought about other trans women.
And that's the moment I realized, I need to stop looking at this stuff right now or
I'm going to become a monster.
And once that happens, it's going to be very difficult to fix.
This is exactly how the incel black pill works.
There's something infectious about these vocabularies.
Like on days I've been working on this video, I'll go out at night and these words just
involuntarily show up in my thoughts.
That bartender is such a chad.
He's totally hype-mocking that tiny cock.
And the tragic thing is, some incels don't realize what this is doing to their minds
until it's too late.
Let's face it.
Black pills are suey fuel.
And a lot of us can't handle them.
I gleefully indulged in this subreddit the moment I discovered it since I loved uncovering
secrets that society had been hiding from me.
But it has affected my mental health in a bad way.
I made my
first call to the suicide hotline a few weeks ago, and I've never needed to do that before.
I could always talk myself out of it through logic, but my mind is ruined now.
This is a form of what psychologists are calling digital self-harm,
prototypically teens who leave themselves abusive comments from sock puppet accounts.
But the more sophisticated adult version of this involves intentionally seeking out abusive and
disparaging comments about yourself made by other people.
I have a long history of doing this.
Intentionally looking for abusive comments.
Especially ones that cut to the core of my deepest insecurities and fears.
Why?
I don't know.
Why do people cut themselves?
Part of it is what we could call masochistic epistemology.
Whatever hurts is true.
I've recently gotten much better about this.
I haven't been to any of the worse places in a couple months, and my mental health is
much improved.
So incels, I'm not going to respond to your worldview like it's an intellectual position
worthy of rational debate.
Because these are the same people who have been there for longer than I have done.
So, I'm not going to respond to your worldview like it's an intellectual position worthy of rational debate. Because these are the same people who have been there for longer than I have done.
ideas and arguments, you're not using them the way rational people use arguments. You're
using them as razorblades to abuse yourselves. And I know, because I've done the exact
same thing. The incel worldview is catastrophizing. It's an anxious death spiral. And the solution
to that has to be therapeutic, not logical. A lot of you are lonely. You've been bullied
and neglected. You feel left behind by society. But what you're doing when you're reading
incel forums is you're slowly internalizing a cruel and distorted way of looking at yourselves
and at other people in your situation, and at women, and you're forming mental habits
that are going to make it very difficult for you to live a happy life. So what you have
to do is get off those forums as fast as possible. I'm going to post a link in the description
of this video to instructions on how to block certain websites from your computer, because
for me, that's what it took.
Fifth base. Anal.
So the incel reddit transgender 4chan analogy has a limit, and that limit is that
for a significant subset of the incel community, their primary hatred is not directed at themselves,
but at women. And they really hate women. Like, I'm basically a professional internet bigotry
scholar at this point, I look at this kind of stuff all the time, but researching this video,
I was honestly kinda shocked at the intensity of misogyny on incel forums.
I won't show the worst of it, but we're talking blaming women for rape,
saying they deserve to be raped, calls for state mandated girlfriends and sex slaves, but,
most of all, just a kind of generalized, misinformed rage.
I hate women. I really do.
Every time I look at them, my blood pressure shoots through the roof, when they're gabbing
on the cell phone about Paris Hilton, when they're adjusting their lipstick and taking up my time
rifling through their stupid purse, when they whine to me about their period,
when they blither on and on about some artist, film director, musician, nobody gives a-
flipping fuck about when they cry and expect your personal sympathy but most of all i hate them
because they're smug hyperactive little bitches made that way by our shithole society look what
uncontrolled feminism and the media has hi stacy it's tracy well i was at the mall the other day
with amber heather jenna and trish and we were talking about paris hilton a very relevant
cultural figure in 2018 they live in this cartoon caricature world where it's easy to avoid thinking
of women as fully human and that's where my sympathy runs dry because this kind of hatred
just needs a spark to turn to violence so insults i know you're not gonna listen to anything i say
and you're just gonna say that i'm a tranny and a faggot and a degenerate and to that i say how dare
you say things that are entirely true but also vol sell if you wouldn't and i know you don't
listen to suggestions about how you probably actually could have healthy relationships so
no one can really reach you until
you get out of those forums and allow yourselves to be reached but by way of a closing remark i
guess i simply invite you to consider that you don't even need a warm body or a sex robot to
satisfy the erotic longing you know when i was your age in 1975 every teenage boy had a stratocaster
in his bedroom it was the outlet for his sexual frustration what i'm suggesting is the manosphere
exists because rock and roll is dead but there's other options think about the eroticism of a
rainstorm the clap of thunder
the rustle of the leaves the steam rising off the warm pavement
and whether you're a chad a stacy an incel or a hun you can always return to the caress of
our dark mother the sea whose salty embrace envelops every contour of your naked body
as a
of
my
own
work
Whew, is it hot in here or is it just me?
