Bubble, bubble, toil and trouble.
Fireborn and cauldron bubble.
Something wicked this way comes. Magical deeds are afoot, dear readers. Magical darkness.
A must.
Joanne, I want to talk to you, Joanne.
What is it about Joannes? I can't catch a break from these people.
So now that 2020 is finally over, I think we can let the record conclusively show
that it was a year homest is bad. And on top of everything else that was going on,
truly the last thing we needed was the author of Harry Potter coming forward to announce
there's two things she can't stand. Bigotry and the transgenders. Ow.
Elderberry wand.
Turgid. With a core of…
Ice dragon. Lumos.
Can we afford spells? Is that in the budget?
Expecto Patreon.
So you've probably heard by now about Joanne Rowling's transphobic tweets.
Unless you've been living under a rock, in which case, get back under that rock,
sweetie, there is nothing good going on up here, it's not worth it. Or maybe you heard that all
Joanne did was say biological sex is real, and now crazy gender ideologues and trans activists are
trying to silence her. This is cancel culture gone too far. This is a witch hunt. Celebrities are
under attack. This is the new Salem. This is Orwell's nightmare. This is a painful topic for
me all around, because as a transgender woman, I am honestly hurt by a lot of the things Joanne
has said in the last year. But I also know what it's like to be the target of a Twitter mob.
And I realize that to most people, complaining about being cancelled, it sounds incredible, but
it sounds incredibly whiny and self-absorbed. Like, you'd especially think that rich and
famous people like JK Rowling would be above staying up alone at night reading mean things
people say online. But you'd think wrong. See, you underestimate the fundamental sadness of the
human condition. And no amount of fame and money is gonna fix that. You know, fame alienates you
from other people. It dehumanizes you in the eyes of the masses. Which can actually make you feel
more alone, even when people are worshipping you as a goddess. Never mind how it feels when they're
hunting you as a witch. The truth is that unless you've personally experienced infamy, being shamed
and shunned on a scale the human brain can't really even understand, then you just don't know
what it's like. And you don't know how you'd react in that situation. But Joanne knows, and when I
see her getting trashed on the TL, there's a traumatized part of me that's unironically
triggered by watching people cancel her. And I want to protect. My nurturing and compassionate
nature sometimes gets the best of me. But there's also a part of me that wants to join the trashing.
How could you do this to me, Joanne? I did not come out of the cupboard under the stairs for this.
So what I want to do in this video is take Joanne's pain seriously and treat her like a complex human
being, while also being critical of the things she said about the transgender question. And I also
want to know where the Twitter mob is coming from. Because they're in pain too, and don't they also
deserve our understanding? So without further ado, let's go in with a Mac 224 tapered blending brush
and see if we can find the truth. Swish and flick.
So is the author of Harry Potter a bigot? Well, she certainly seems invested in the belief that
she's not a bigot. What vice do you most despise? Bigotry. In looking over Joanne's tweets,
I don't think the average person would see any problem with what she said. However,
I mean, not to be condescending, but I feel like the average person's understanding of
transgender is still a little bit... I don't really get the whole trans thing. Like,
why don't you just be a feminine man? I don't know, Amber. Why don't you be a feminine man?
Who knows, you could be missing out. So we're going to go through the things that Joanne has
said about trans people, but I don't want this to be just a drama video or a video saying,
cancel Harry Potter, drag her. Like, I want to try to do something a little bit more meaningful
than that. So I'm going to use J.K. Rowe as a case study in bigotry and see if we can maybe learn
something about
what bigotry is, how does it work, and how do otherwise good people get drawn into it.
And if we can make any progress on any of those questions, well, for once I think I'll actually
have earned my Patreon budget. So keeping in mind our very serious and educational purpose,
let's spill some shade, throw some tea.
So this all started in 2018 when Joanne liked a transphobic tweet and followed an
anti-trans account. Now in the interest of giving Joanne as much benefit of the doubt as I can,
I'm not going to admit this as evidence because I don't want to do guilt by association.
Strike it from the record.
That was fun. I like hammering things.
The real story begins in December 2019 when Joanne tweeted the hashtag
I stand with Maya, referencing Maya Forstater.
Maya Forstater is an English consultant who lost her contract with the non-profit she worked for
after she did transphobic tweets. And Maya has been kind enough to compile them all for us in her
thread titled,
Allegedly Transphobic Tweets.
Well, let's take a look and see how alleged they are.
Yes, I think that male people are not women. I don't think that being a woman or female
is a matter of identity or womanly feelings. It is biology.
Another says,
Some people believe that a person with a penis can be a woman. Some, a majority, don't.
Neither group should be discriminated against in everyday life, but in situations involving
taking your clothes off with strangers, integration of the two groups is not possible.
And there's a cartoon of a hairy-armed, hairy-legged, burgeoning trans woman
flashing her penis at cis women and saying,
It's alright, it's a woman's penis.
So we're looking at a standard transphobia starter pack.
Everyone born female is a woman, everyone born male is a man,
trans women are predators who prey on women, and I'm being oppressed for speaking the truth.
Is this what you want, Joanne? You want to put the sorting hat on humanity and divide us up into
little houses? Well, what if I'm a Gryffindor trapped in a Hufflepuff's box?
What then, Joanne? What then?
Okay, so why does Joanne stand with Maya? Well, if the tweet simply said I stand with
Maya without further explanation, you could give her the benefit of the doubt.
Maybe she just doesn't think people should lose their job for having bigoted opinions,
even if she disagrees with those opinions.
But if that's all she was saying, I wouldn't be making this video, would I?
The full tweet reads,
Dress however you please. Call yourself whatever you like. Sleep with any consenting adult.
Live your best life in peace and security.
But force women out of their jobs for stating that sex is real.
Hashtag I stand with Maya. Hashtag this is not a drill.
Now, I'm guessing that to most people, this tweet at first glance doesn't seem transphobic.
It might even seem supportive of trans people since she said we're allowed to dress however
we want and call ourselves whatever crazy thing. But there's a couple of things about this that
don't sit right with me. First is the phrase,
force women out of their jobs for stating that sex is real.
Sex is real is a pretty dishonest summary of what Maya said in her discrimination complaint, namely,
I believe that it is impossible to change your sex or to lose your sex.
Girls grow up to be women, boys grow up to be men. No change of clothes or hairstyle,
no plastic surgery, no accident or illness, no course of hormones, no force of will or
social conditioning, no declaration, can turn a female person into a male or a male person into
a female. If Joanne had said Maya had been fired for claiming that a person born male could never
be a woman and a person born female could never be a man, that would have been more accurate.
But it would also sound contentious and obviously anti-trans.
Sex is real is a euphemism designed to present Maya Forstater's transphobia as a simple
statement of fact, basic common sense, which only crazy activists and ideologues would oppose.
Transphobes love to play this game where they
pretend that trans people just don't understand basic biology. That's our problem.
As if I didn't start taking female hormones because I'm acutely aware
that my body is not the same as a cis woman's body. That sex is real.
You will never be a woman, Nathan. Every cell in your body is male and has a Y chromosome.
Really? That's crazy. How'd you learn so much about science?
You know, I don't really feel the need to have a second X chromosome. I get by with one.
I make it work.
I actually like the Y chromosome.
I think it's a little more dainty, you know? It's a little softer, a little more petite.
The X chromosome has a lot of extra appendages, don't you think?
And I don't need any more of those, thanks.
No trans person thinks it's possible to change chromosomal sex,
and to pretend otherwise is to argue in bad faith.
When we say that someone is a trans man or a trans woman,
we're talking about psychological and social identity.
So when transphobes say sex is real, they're not actually contradicting anything most trans people
believe.
Except by implication.
When transphobes say sex is real, what they mean is only chromosomal sex matters.
They mean they don't believe in transgender identity,
which they trivialize, calling it dressing up.
Fashion choices.
Whatever you wanna call yourself.
When Joanne says, dress however you please, call yourself whatever you like,
she's belittling what it actually means to be trans, reducing it to a change of name and costume.
It's similar to the language of cashmere.
For example, the homophobic equivalent of Joanne's tweet might read,
Choose whatever lifestyle you want.
Indulge your sexual preferences with any consenting adult in the privacy of your own bedroom.
But force Christians out of their jobs for stating that marriage is between a man and a woman?
Hashtag I stand with Kim Davis.
A penis and a sausage cannot make a baby.
Checkmate, the gays.
It's just science.
Homophobes trivially say that sex is real.
Trivialize what it is to be gay.
They refer to it as sexual preferences.
Or a lifestyle.
Or what you do in the bedroom.
We don't tell straight people to keep their lifestyle in the bedroom.
But we should.
Clearly, the straights are not oppressed enough.
Being gay is more than what you do in the bedroom.
It's also who you love.
It's part of who you are.
Part of your humanity.
And that's something that stays with you outside of the bedroom.
So to dismiss it as sexual,
or sexual preferences,
is homophobic.
Likewise, being trans is not a costume I take off at the end of the night.
It's not a fashion choice.
It's not a pet name some people call me.
It's part of who I am as a person, you know?
It's part of my humanity.
And it's also the kind of body I have.
A transsexual body.
So telling trans people to dress however you want
is not really a supportive statement.
Unless you're supporting YouTubers wearing Louis Vuitton's...
socks in their videos apologizing for being racist,
which is not valid,
and is in fact,
a hate crime.
YouTubers are constantly dragging each other because
we see ourselves reflected in the other,
and we can't stand the sight of it.
So after the Maya Forrest daughter tweet,
Joanne was silent about trans people for six months.
But she took up the cause again in June 2019,
first to complain about the use of the phrase
people who menstruate in the title of an article
trying to include trans men and non-binary people
in a discussion of sex.
That same night, presumably in response to her Twitter mentions
being lit up by leftist teenagers who think
Stalin did nothing wrong but Rachel Maddow is a war criminal,
Joanne tweeted a thread again repeating the slogan that sex is real,
adding,
It isn't hate to speak the truth.
And concluding with another backhanded statement of support.
I respect every trans person's right to live any way
that feels authentic and comfortable to them.
I'd march with you if you were discriminated against
on the basis,
if you were discriminated against on the basis of being trans.
If you were discriminated against on the basis of being trans?
If?
Widespread discrimination against trans people is well documented.
In fact, the same week as Joanne's tweet,
the Trump administration removed non-discrimination protections
for trans people in health care and health insurance.
So are you marching with us or not, Joanne?
There's a lot of stuff in these tweets that might seem innocent enough to the average person,
but which to someone who understands bigotry against trans people,
raises a red flag.
Bigotry always has a history.
And in order to understand bigotry, you have to learn that history.
Prejudices are made up of tropes, stereotypes, narratives, arguments,
which we aren't born knowing, we have to learn them.
No one is born thinking that the gays are destroying the family,
or that women are naturally subservient,
or that the Jews are trying to control the world economy.
So if you aren't familiar with these prejudices,
you might not notice anything wrong with them.
He never said he hated the Jews.
He is simply concerned about the over-representation of Jewish people in media and banking.
But if you're aware, woke if you will,
then it kind of rings alarm bells when you hear someone repeating bigoted talking points.
When I see Joanne tweeting about how trans people think sex isn't real,
and they're erasing same-sex attraction, and they're silencing women,
alarm bells are ringing because I recognize these as familiar transphobic talking points.
Specifically, TERF talking points.
TERF means Trans Exclusionary Radical Feminism.
God, are we still talking about this?
I promise, this is the last time.
So TERFism is a...
It's a hate movement that disguises transphobia as feminism.
Bigotry has a history.
The foundational TERF text is feminist professor Janice Raymond's 1979 book
The Transsexual Empire, The Making of the Sh**ty Male,
in which Raymond argues that, quote,
All transsexuals rape women's bodies by reducing the real female form to an artifact,
appropriating this body for themselves.
She claims that trans women are agents of the patriarchy who, quote,
merely cut off the most obvious means of invading women.
This book set the general tone for feminist transphobia,
and I bring this up because I want to give you a sense of how this kind of transphobe talks
when they're not afraid of Twitter backlash.
Typical male narcissist.
Nathan manipulates his cultish audience into thinking he's the victim of the big ol' meanie TERFs.
If you keep calling me Nathan, I'm gonna call you Nigel.
Cheerio, old chap.
Or whatever you people say.
Here's the thing, Nigella.
Bigotry can be mean, yes.
And it usually is, when bigots think they can get away with it.
But it's vital to recognize that being mean is not the essence of bigotry.
Bigotry can be mean.
Bigotry can be hateful, yes, but specifically, bigotry is hate that poses a political threat
to the target group.
The fundamental problem with TERFs is not that they're mean, it's that they're
politically reactionary.
They want to reverse the progress of trans liberation.
In the final chapter of the Transsexual Empire, Raymond lays out her solution to the trans
question, quote,
The problem of transsexualism would be best served by morally mandating it out of existence.
I believe that the elimination of transsexualism is not best achieved by legislation prohibiting
transsexual treatment and surgery, but rather by legislation that limits it.
I would favor restricting the number of hospitals and centers where transsexual surgery could
be performed.
The kind of counseling, to pass successfully as masculine or feminine,
that now reigns in gender identity clinics only reinforces the problem of transsexualism.
She goes on to argue for alternative, feminist, consciousness-raising therapies, admitting,
I am not so naive as to think that they will make transsexualism disappear overnight, but
they would at least pose the existence of a real alternative to be explored and tried.
So like homophobes, TERFs have historically advocated a kind of conversion therapy aimed
at eliminating transsexualism.
transsexual identity and behavior.
And like the anti-abortion movement,
they recognize it's not yet politically practical
to completely make illegal a medical procedure
they don't like, so they settle for making it
as difficult as possible to get one.
In 1980, Janice Raymond authored a report
to the Department of Health and Human Services
repeating her arguments against transsexualism,
which was cited in the 1981 decision
that Medicare would not cover transition-related healthcare.
That decision wasn't overturned
until 2014, so there's real political consequences
to bigotry, it's not just a matter of being mean.
Polite bigotry can be just as dangerous.
Unlike Janice Raymond, J.K. Rowling seems totally convinced,
and very intent on convincing all of us,
that she's a totally progressive LGBT ally
who loves and supports trans people,
while in the same breath, spewing transphobic arguments.
She's constantly saying things like,
"'I know and love trans people
"'but I'd march with you if you were discriminated against
"'on the basis of being trans at the same time.'"
None of the gender-critical women I've talked to
hates trans people, on the contrary.
Many of them became interested in this issue
in the first place out of concern for trans youth.
A lot of people have a hard time noticing
this kind of bigotry, and I think one reason for that
is that our common understanding of bigotry is very narrow.
People think of bigotry as like judging a group
instead of an individual.
People think of bigotry as like judging a group instead of an individual.
people think of bigotry as like judging a group instead of an individual.
Which is, of course, a horrible thing to do.
I don't care for the English.
They're sick, sick people.
Or people think of bigotry as hate,
something inhuman and monstrous.
So when people hear the word bigot,
they're expecting someone like Lord Voldemort,
some uber-Nazi who despises love and friendship.
But the problem with the Nazis was
not that they hated love and friendship, right?
They believed they were defending German blood and soil
against Marxist-Bolshevism and Jewish contamination.
And what were we supposed to do?
Not defend the Reich against Polish atrocities?
That's how a Nazi actually thinks, right?
It's not that they hate friendship.
No, they have their own internal logic
of victimization and self-righteousness.
So when you reduce bigotry to a caricature of pure hatred,
you obscure that bigotry is a deeply human problem.
You know, sometimes people criticize me
for empathizing with bigots,
but I believe that understanding bigots
is the best defense against becoming one yourself.
Because when you dehumanize the villains,
you become unable to recognize the villain within.
How is she, though?
She needs a hot toddy is what she needs.
Metal straw because I love the environment.
I'm so good, I'm really fucking good.
The idea that bigotry is simply hate,
I call the Westboro Baptist Church theory of bigotry.
It's the idea that bigots are people who outright say,
we hate you, God hates you,
and we're all marching around with signs
about how much we hate you.
Like the bad guys in that Taylor Swift video.
Ugh, Taylor Swift.
Everyone wants to be a gay icon now.
Well, I don't.
I don't want to be a gay icon.
I'm just stuck with you people.
Just kidding.
Shade never made anybody less gay.
Uh, this isn't Shade, Taylor.
Shade is JK Rowling telling trans people,
sleep with an eight.
And scenting adult, who will have you.
Bigotry is a lot more complicated than just hate.
And the video for you need to calm down
is just so emblematic of this misconception.
Taylor takes this subject of homophobia
and turns it into yet another song about haters.
But in the real world,
backwoods hillbillies stomping around with misspelled signs
are not really the problem.
The most dangerous bigots are highly sophisticated
and powerful people.
And yeah,
there are still blatant homophobes who say,
it's an abomination,
these perverts are spreading AIDS,
they're destroying the family,
they're recruiting children.
But these days,
it's much more common to hear,
of course I love gay people.
Some of my best friends struggle with same-sex attraction.
But it's not homophobic to not want LGBT ideology
promoted in schools to children as young as three years old.
Why, it's a full-on assault on religious liberty.
And we get convincing homophobe, don't I?
There's really two different styles of bigotry.
They express the same prejudice,
but they're very different in tone.
I'll call the two styles direct bigotry and indirect bigotry.
Direct bigotry is openly contemptuous.
It's a bigotry manifested in slurs
and outright discrimination and demonizing the target group
and calls for shunning, subordination, or even violence.
Whereas indirect bigotry manifests as concern or debate
about a host of proxy issues.
It's often defensive in tone rather than offensive.
Frequently, the claim is that a once-needed liberation movement
has now gone too far,
but it's now the activists who are the new oppressors
who are disturbing law and order
with violent and chaotic protests,
who are victimizing and silencing innocent people
by calling them bigots,
who are infiltrating the media
and replacing good old-fashioned entertainment
with politically correct propaganda.
And of course, ordinary people are too intimidated
to speak out against it because cancel culture
is out of control and free speech is under attack.
The direct bigot is always frothing at the mouth,
ranting and raving about predators, perverts, invaders,
rapists, brutish animals, vermin, rats, roaches, contagions.
Whereas the indirect bigot is always defending something,
always a knight in shining armor, defending women,
defending the children, defending marriage,
defending freedom, defending the family,
defending our values, defending common sense,
defending our values, defending common sense,
defending tradition, defending civilization itself,
defending God.
He's all powerful, but he could really use your help, Mary.
I think a lot of people
take a borderline heroic view of themselves,
and indirect bigotry flatters that self-image.
Indirect bigotry often replaces the actual people it targets
with some big abstract concept.
Instead of Jewish people,
they claim to be against Zionist-occupied government.
Instead of women,
they claim to hate feminazis, or the friend zone.
Gay people are depersonified as the gay agenda.
Trans people become transgenderism, gender ideology,
trans activists.
What they're really against is equality,
but they don't say that.
In fact, they may not even think it.
But they tell on themselves
when they react with instinctive hostility
to anyone who agitates for change.
It's not racist to think that Black Lives Matter,
or any of their friends,
are just a bunch of thugs
that shouldn't disrespect the national anthem.
A book called The Anatomy of Prejudices
by Elizabeth Young Brule really helped me with this video.
One of the points she makes is that a lot of the time,
bigotry is backlash.
Ideologies of desire are, generally,
backlashes against movements of equality.
They are regressive prejudices
that reinstate inequalities and distinctions,
when the force of movements for equality,
and, often unconsciously, rejected.
Prejudice replaces social barriers of another kind.
Bigotry is not just the psychological state
of hating a group of people.
Bigotry is political.
It's a reaction to changing demographics,
or to liberation movements,
or to changing power relations between groups.
A lot of casual misogynists don't exactly hate women
in the literal psychological sense.
It's more that they feel threatened,
by the prospect of the social and political equality of women.
In fact, I would argue that feeling threatened
is the distinctive psychological experience of bigotry,
much more so than feeling hateful.
So bigotry is reactive, and it changes,
along with the circumstances it's a reaction to.
1950s misogyny still has some things in common
with 2020s misogyny.
For example, a lot of men still feel some need
to control women's sexuality,
and women's bodies.
But it's also changed a lot,
as gender relations have shifted in the last 70 years.
The idea that women are naturally suited
to domestic servitude is a lot less prevalent
than it used to be.
And transphobia is a prejudice that's getting much louder,
because in the last decade,
trans liberation has increased our visibility.
People are running into us at work now.
They're having to use our pronouns.
They're seeing us in politics or in media,
and not just as laughing stocks or monsters
like we used to be, but as actual characters.
And a lot of people are not very happy about it.
They feel threatened.
That must be super fucking hard for you.
Prejudice replaces social barriers of another kind.
So JK Rowling frames her position as,
I am just saying the fact that sex is real.
It's not hateful to say a fact.
Why is everyone so mad at me?
A fact can't be bigoted.
And I agree.
That a fact cannot be bigoted,
but a fact on its own doesn't mean very much.
Usually when we discuss facts,
we're using those facts to tell a story.
And facts can be used to tell bigoted stories.
You know, suppose someone tweets the fact
that the homicide rate is higher for black Americans
than white Americans.
I'm gonna ask,
what story are you trying to tell with this fact?
What political goal are you trying to tell
with this fact?
trying to support.
One way indirect bigotry works is by camouflaging political struggles as intellectual debates.
When Joanne says sex is real, she sounds like she's staking out a position in the trans
debate, which is then presented as an intellectual conflict about the metaphysics of gender instead
of what it really is, which is a political conflict about the social equality of transgender
people.
And the effectiveness of that strategy is actually a reason I'm not a huge fan of
the slogan, trans women are women.
And this is just my opinion, I don't speak for any other trans people, but there's
a couple things I don't like about it.
One is trans men and non-binary people matter just as much as trans women, which you don't
as often hear, trans men are men, or non-binary people are...
valid?
Doesn't really work, does it?
The other problem with trans women are women is it tends to invite the response, well what
does it even mean to be a woman?
Define woman-head.
And now you're immediately getting baited into some bullshit semantic debate about what
is a real woman.
A real woman.
How do you know you're a real woman, Amber?
What if you're in the Matrix right now, and in the real world you're biologically male?
The tables are turned.
It doesn't really matter.
That's it.
This is metaphysics, and life is too short for metaphysics.
You know I've been down this road too many times already, and I always end up having
these dead-end conversations about gender performativity, or worse, conversations about
what it means to feel like a woman.
Well the truth is, I don't feel like a woman.
I don't think anyone feels like a woman honestly, except a certain sub-genre of gay men, and
possibly Shania Twain.
Probably not even her anymore honestly, not since the early 2000s.
You know some questions?
Like, how do you know you're a woman?
How do you know you're a woman?
It's a very complex question.
The only way to answer this should be dissolved rather than solved.
That's what Wittgenstein said.
That's right, we're dragging Ludwig into this.
Sometimes the only way to answer a question is to realize you're asking the wrong question.
How do I know I'm a woman?
Well look at me.
I rest.
My case.
The monitor's over here.
That's what I'm looking at when I look over here.
I like to check in occasionally, see how I'm doing.
Look trans people can't even agree among ourselves what gender is.
No.
even try to answer the question, you end up enraging some part of the community who feels
excluded. So no, trans people are not trying to force an ideology on people. We don't even share
an ideology within our own community. What we share are a common set of political struggles
against discrimination, against harassment, against excessive medical gatekeeping, against
exclusion from public life. So what would be a better slogan than trans women are women? Well,
ideally something that includes all trans people and something that evades pointless philosophizing
about biology and what is gender and who is true trans and what is a woman really. Something that
centers what actually matters, which is freeing trans people from the stigma and discrimination
that have historically prevented us from becoming equal members of society. So I know it sounds kind
of outdated, very 1970s, but I personally like the slogan,
Trans Living.
Liberation now. It's short, it's sweet, and instead of prompting, define womanhood,
it prompts people to ask, what do you mean liberation? Liberation from what? And then you
can say, well, I'll tell you. And now you're talking about politics instead of talking about
semantics. Isn't that better? I feel like trans culture is just so obsessed with reassuring
ourselves that we are valid that we sometimes forget that the end goal of a political movement
is not validity. It's equality.
That's what we're supposed to be fighting for. So instead of asking, does JK Rowling think we're
valid? Which like, who fucking cares if she thinks we're valid? Well, maybe I care a little bit. But
instead, why don't we ask, is she or is she not an ally in our struggle for equality? Doesn't that
just bring reality back into focus? Isn't it so much better to have a concrete political project
in front of you instead of sinking into this scholastic gender theology? Trans people are a
population of people.
Who have a right to equality and to freedom from discrimination. We are not an ideology
that's up for debate. But that's how JK Rowling frames the trans question. Not as a struggle
for equality that she opposes, but as an ideology that she disagrees with. I'm just saying that
sex is real. Is that all you're saying, Joanne?
Remember that scene in the Goblet of Fire in the Prefect's bathroom? moaning Myrtle,
hey how are you? I wonder if that inspired my love of baths. This bath is actually really nice.
It's a lot of milk and a lot of rose oil, Epsom salts. Just kind of everything that's good in baths
all together. I don't wanna talk about bigotry. I wanna talk about baths. Can this just be a video
about baths from now on? Well, okay that's researched. Guys, we're gonna talk about that lamps. Have
a nice day. Bye-bye.
oh fine i'll do my job on june 10 jk rowling published an essay to her website which on
twitter she titled turf wars which was just awarded the russell prize by the bbc for its
brave display of unyielding transphobia i guess the essay is several pages long and outlines her
reasons for speaking out on sex and gender issues i refuse to bow down to a movement
that i believe is doing demonstrable harm in seeking to erode women as a political and
biological class and offering to cover predators like few before it where do i even begin with this
one well let's pick some highlights woman is not a costume woman is not an idea in a man's head woman
is not a pink brain a liking for jimmy chews or any of the other sexist ideas now somehow touted
as progressive oh well my mistake here i was thinking i was a woman it turns out i'm just a
man who likes expensive shoes
what a whimsical misunderstanding okay well that's it everyone the channel's over thanks
for the likes and comments i'm gonna head out now to the uh the jimmy choo store and
then i guess i'll cut my tits off joanne joanne this is madness joanne
when you throw open the doors of bathrooms and changing rooms to any man who believes or feels
he's a woman and as i've said gender confirmation certificates may now be granted without
any pre-existing requirements for handshaking places like judging processes or homes Millions
have heritage history covering our plight resisting the sexual taboos and abusingsama
lynchings in unconscious terms and if they niinro you deny their existence the new opens
up the door to any and all men who wish to get introduced so look i understand that some women
are anxious about the thought of predators in bathrooms and believe me i don't want to
share a bathroom with a predator any more than you do why are all my rose petals on this one side come some of them need to come over here
come here i've redistributed the petals socialist icon but this talking point that gender change on legal documents will enable predators to enter relations away from different countries will kill women if you are welcome not a woman that comes into a group would turn women into men's seafood and take men into..."
...accutest savings begins to be banished by caused by금 sociaux...
documents will enable predators to enter bathrooms it doesn't really make sense because gender
policing in public bathrooms doesn't involve legal documents like when was the last time you had to
present a gender certificate to gain admittance to a public bathroom this feels like a strangely
outdated conversation to be having during pandemic lockdown like imagine using a public bathroom
imagine being in public i've been reading this book called female masculinity which is about
the experiences of butch women and there's a section here called the bathroom problem which
describes how women's bathrooms tend to operate as an area for the enforcement of gender conformity
the author jack halberstam who's assigned female at birth and presents masculine
describes routinely having security called in him for using the women's bathroom having one's gender
challenged in the women's restroom is a frequent occurrence in the lives of many androgynous or
masculine women indeed it is so
challenging that it's so important to have a feminine bathroom and
having a feminine bathroom and having a feminine sangat as well is so important to me because
that one wonders whether the category woman,
when used to designate public functions,
is completely outmoded.
Queer literature is littered with references
to the bathroom problem,
and it would not be an exaggeration
to call it a standard feature of the butch narrative.
And that's very interesting to me
because as a feminine trans woman,
I have not once been questioned
or had the authorities called on me
in a women's public bathroom,
and the entire time I've been using them,
which is several years now.
So when Joanne Rowling, a feminine heterosexual woman,
calls for more bathroom policing
to protect the lesbians or whatever,
it just seems ignorant
of the way bathroom policing actually works.
Like, is she just so famous
that she doesn't use public bathrooms anymore
and she forgot how they work?
How much could one bathroom entry certificate cost, Michael?
$10?
Women's bathrooms are policed according to femininity,
not chromosomes,
and there's no practical reason
for people to change that
short of stationing a genital inspector in every stall,
you know, just to make sure no one's privacy is violated.
That's a very good idea, Joanne.
That's very good.
Ironically, radical feminists
aren't even trans-exclusionary.
They include trans men in their feminism
because they were born women.
Isn't it ironic that supposedly transphobic feminists
think that trans men are women?
Hello, operator, could you get me Alanis Morissette?
I have a new incident to report.
So look, I could keep refuting points made in Turf Wars,
which is basically just a series
of common transphobic canards
we've all heard a hundred times before,
but I want to focus in particular on some passages
that I think are very revealing
about the psychology of transphobia.
What is it about the transgenders
that some people feel threatened by?
Well, Joanne Rowling gives us a lot to work with
in answering that question.
You know, Joanne being a TERF,
is mostly terrible for trans people,
but maybe the silver lining
is that the most famous novelist in the world
having a public transphobic breakdown
is providing a wealth of insight
about the interior world of a transphobe.
In Turf Wars, Joanne claims her interest
in the trans issue is intensely personal,
and she has two reasons why it's personal.
The first is she thinks that if she had been a child today,
she would have been transed.
Someone would have transed her.
You know, people are being transed
to left and right these days.
It's a reasonable thing to be concerned about.
Trans people, we're always on the lookout
for the next person we can trans.
So all we want to do is trans people.
I transed four people this morning before I ate breakfast.
She thinks that she would have been recruited
by the transsexual empire and forced to take hormones
by the dark cabal of endocrinologists.
And in support of this speculation,
Joanne rehashes a bunch of transphobic tropes
about social contagion and to quote,
4,400% increase in goblins.
4,400% increase in goblins.
Girls being referred for transitioning treatment.
And that sounds pretty alarming, right?
4,400%.
But you have to keep in mind that 10 years ago,
only 32 assigned female patients under 18 were referred.
And by last year, that number was 1,740,
with the biggest increase happening five years ago.
You know, the transgender tipping point year.
So that is a big increase,
but it corresponds to the biggest ever increase
in trans visibility.
So it does make sense.
And there's 11 million children,
in the UK.
So let's say 5.5 million girls and 1,740 is 0.03% of that.
And considering that around 1% of adults
are some kind of transgender,
0.03% of kids is not really an alarming number to me.
If anything, you'd expect it to be higher.
But part of Joanne's problem here
is that she seems not to really understand
what being trans is.
The writings of young trans men reveal a group of trans women
in a group of notably sensitive and clever people.
The more of their accounts of gender dysphoria I've read,
with their insightful descriptions of anxiety,
dissociation, eating disorders, self-harm, and self-hatred,
the more I've wondered whether,
if I'd been born 30 years later,
I too might have tried to transition.
The allure of escaping womanhood would have been huge.
If I had found community and sympathy online
that I couldn't find in my immediate environment,
I believe I could have been persuaded
to turn myself into the son
my father had openly said he'd have preferred.
Fortunately for me, I found my own sense of otherness
and my ambivalence about being a woman
reflected in the work of female writers and musicians
who reassured me that, in spite of everything,
a sexist world tries to throw at the female-bodied.
It's fine not to feel pink, frilly,
and compliant inside your own head.
It's okay to feel confused, dark, both sexual and non-sexual.
It's okay to feel unsure of what or who you are.
Okay, so there's a lot to unpack here,
and let's start by making a list
of things being a transgender man is not.
Having anxiety, having dissociation,
having an eating disorder, doing self-harm,
doing self-hatred, a viable way
to make your sexist father proud,
not feeling pink, not feeling frilly,
not being compliant, feeling confused,
feeling dark, feeling sexual, feeling non-sexual,
feeling unsure of who you are.
Okay, so you can be a trans man and experience some
or even all of these things,
but none of these things are what being a trans man is.
Wanting to take testosterone to masculinize your body
and literally live your life as a man
is not the same as the typical struggles
other girls go through.
Joanne is projecting her own memories
of troubled adolescence onto trans men,
and then saying, oh, clearly they were going
through the same things I was,
just someone persuaded them to transition.
It's a limitation of human empathy
that sometimes when we're trying to understand
what someone else is feeling,
the best we can do is to project our feelings onto them.
And sometimes that's a misrepresentation.
Sometimes other people are experiencing things
that we have never experienced.
So we have to be aware of that.
We have to invent explanations
about why they're not behaving the way we think they should.
Someone is persuading them to transition.
But this fear mongering about kids being persuaded
to transition is just not how things work.
From the way transphobes talk about it,
you'd think whenever a little girl on the playground
picks up a toy truck,
an endocrinologist pops out from behind a tree and says,
we've got a nonconformist on our hands, Johnson.
Stand by, I'm gonna trans him.
But this is the narrative
transphobes are pushing,
in particular about young transmasculine people.
Last year, a transphobic screed of a book came out
that is essentially to transmasculine people
what the transsexual empire was to trans women.
It's called Irreversible Damage,
The Transgender Craze Seducing Our Daughters.
Chapter one, the contagion.
Jesus.
Laying it on a little thick, don't you think, Abigail?
The argument is that female to male transgenderism
is an infectious social disease.
Which is literally the argument Hitler made
about homosexuality, but okay, great.
I think a major problem with media coverage of trans issues
is that not enough attention is paid
to transphobia against trans men.
Like after the J.K. Rowling story broke,
Daniel Radcliffe came out and said,
transgender women are women.
And that's very nice of him,
but a huge section of Joanne's essay is about trans men.
In fact, she spends more words on trans men
than on any other topic.
So I think it's worth looking in particular.
at that.
Something I've noticed is transphobia against trans men
is not the same as transphobia against trans women.
There's a lot of similarities,
but they're really two different prejudices.
And they come from different psychological places.
In the same way that lesbophobia is different
from homophobia against gay men.
For trans women, I would say the distinctive experience
of transphobia is being simultaneously treated
as a pornographic female fetish object
and
as a dangerous male predator.
The ultimate sex demon,
this kind of incubus succubus who will
ravish your wife and trap your husband.
Your polygamous commune will be devastated.
Whereas I feel like trans masculine people are less vilified,
but so infantilized.
I guess transphobes view trans men as women,
so a lot of misogynistic tropes still apply.
So much for transitioning to escape sexism.
The story is often that these vulnerable, confused girls
can't possibly decide for themselves
what to do with their own bodies,
so the courts must intervene to take control.
Which is exactly what just happened in the UK,
where trans youth under 16 will now need
not only the approval of a doctor,
but will need to seek a court order
in order to get puberty blockers.
And the justification given for this
mirrored exactly Joanne's concerns
about fragile, vulnerable teenage girls
being unable to make informed decisions.
In her essay, Joanne says,
I happen to know a self-described transsexual woman
who's older than I am and wonderful.
Although she's open about her past as a gay man,
I've always found it hard to think of her
as anything other than a woman.
Being older, though, she went through a long
and rigorous process of evaluation,
psychotherapy, and staged transformation.
The current explosion of trans activism
is urging a removal of almost all the robust systems
through which candidates for sex reassignment
were once required to pass.
So that's what she wants.
She wants robust systems of medical gatekeeping,
which is the same thing Janice Raymond wants,
just Joanne's more polite about it.
I want to make a drink.
Sometimes people ask me if I used to be a bartender.
No, just drank a lot.
Ugh, we're revealing leg again.
The scandal.
Putting a wet, white chiffon thing over it
is that much more chaste.
Well, I'm an extremely chaste woman.
I try to honor God with my body.
That's why I got a sex change.
I'm honoring God with my sex change.
I'm not drunk enough for this.
So I also want to point out that cis men and cis women
are often transphobic for different reasons.
A lot of cis men are transphobic against trans women
because the thought that a man can become a woman
threatens the certainty of their own manhood.
It's similar to the reason a lot of straight men
are homophobic.
They feel their own masculinity is threatened,
and of course, a lot of straight men
are attracted to trans women,
and they feel that that attraction threatens
their identity as straight men.
Back in my comphet days when I dated men,
for a couple straight guys I hooked up with,
going down on me was like crossing the fucking Rubicon.
This is it, Mr. Frodo.
If I take one more step,
I'll be the farthest from heterosexual I've ever been.
Okay, Samwise, whatever you need to tell yourself.
And afterwards, they go into this whole Cartesian spiral.
What have I done?
What does this mean?
Who am I?
I think for a lot of cis women,
the very existence of trans men
sends them into a similar identity crisis.
I think a lot of women have had to fight
a really difficult internal battle
to make peace with their own womanhood.
And for some women,
confronting the existence of transgender people
seems to open some old wounds.
Like I've noticed in particular
that some of the most virulent and obsessive TERFs
are older lesbian women,
on the more butch side of things.
And these women see hyper-feminine trans women
in makeup and dresses,
and they say,
that is not what being a woman is.
I've had to fight for my own identity
against the idea that that's what being a woman is.
These are just misogynistic stereotypes.
You are a parody of womanhood.
You're a fetishist.
And when they see trans men,
they say, you're a traitor.
You're a self-loather.
Why can't you learn to accept yourself as a woman,
the way I've had to?
But this is all projection and misunderstanding.
Trans women do not think
that wearing dresses is what makes us women.
And trans men do not think
that not feeling pink, frilly, and compliant
is what makes them men.
These are meanings that JK Rowling is assigning
to trans people's actions in her own brain,
because she perceives our lives
as some kind of commentary on gender,
with an implied ideology
about what it means to be a man or a woman.
But that's your interpretation,
Joanne.
That's a meaning that you are imposing on us,
because it seems you have a lot of traumatic gender baggage
of your own,
and it's interfering with your ability
to genuinely empathize with trans people.
You know, at the end of your essay,
you say that you never forget the inner complexity
when it comes to trans people.
And that's a nice thought,
but until you're actually able to stop seeing trans people
as some kind of like abstract theory of gender,
or as a projection of your own
adolescence,
then you're not really seeing us
as distinct individuals with our own experiences and stories.
And since you're a self-appointed spokesperson
on trans people,
sorry, gender issues,
I think it would be good if you listened
to the experiences of trans men without, for instance,
superimposing your own troubled relationship with your father.
I should probably talk about the book,
since I did go to the trouble to read all 900 pages,
because unlike certain other YouTubers,
I do in fact know how to read.
Troubled Blood was published in September 2020
by Joanne Rowling under her pen name, Robert Galbraith.
You know, for someone apparently so concerned
about her womanhood being erased by the transsexuals,
the fact that she publishes under a male pen name is,
it's interesting.
It's a choice.
God, this thing is huge.
It's like the infinite jest of terfury.
So Troubled Blood is a detective novel about,
about the simmering heterosexual tension
between two investigators.
And that's really what Rowling does best, isn't it?
Simmering.
There's a lot of simmering in the Harry Potter universe,
and a lot of fans who'd like to raise that simmer to a boil.
Hello, Daniel.
I love you, grown-up Harry Potter.
Let me show you my love the only way I know how.
Oh, baby.
Is there going to be discourse about this?
Look, if it's wrong to have compact feelings about Daniel Radcliffe,
I don't want to be right.
I will not be shamed for my shameful fantasies.
Get out of here, Daniel.
This is the final farewell moment.
I love you.
farewell to my heterosexuality.
Goodbye, Daniel!
And your little arm, too.
You stay out of this, Linda.
Meow, meow, meow, meow, meow, meow.
So the prime suspect in Troubled Blood is Dennis Creed,
a cross-dressing serial killer who dresses as a woman
to lull his victims, whom he abducts, tortures,
rapes, and murders.
Interesting.
Now, I enjoyed this book because, like most women,
I enjoy books about dangerous perverts.
But a lot of trans people, literate trans people,
have called this book transphobic.
And you might think that's unfair,
since the character Dennis Creed, this serial killer,
is a, he's not a trans, he's a cross-dresser.
This has nothing to do with trans people.
Why so triggered, snowflake?
Well, Precious, there's a couple things I think
are worth taking into consideration here.
One is that the transvestite, or transsexual serial killer,
is an old transphobic trope.
It's a cliche that goes back decades.
And I take great offense to the suggestion
that trans women are serial killers,
because I, for one, haven't been caught yet.
The trope seems to originate in 1960
with Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho.
That's just my guess, though.
I haven't researched this.
Who do you think I am, Lindsay Ellis?
So I don't think Psycho is transphobic.
The movie ends with a psychoanalytic summing up,
where the psychiatrist offers this pseudo-Freudian explanation
that Norman cross-dresses
because the personality of his dead mother takes over
and, out of jealousy, kills the women
Norman is attracted to.
Therefore, the psychiatrist explains,
Norman is not a real transvestite.
You're a fake transvestite, Norman.
Trender alert.
But I do think that,
even if Psycho isn't explicitly transphobic,
movies can subconsciously implant ideas
and feelings into our brains.
And I do think it's worth noting
that the most famous and most terrifying
scene in cinema history
is of a man in a dress attacking a woman in a bathroom.
To quote a popular film critic,
you might not have noticed it, but your brain did.
The cross-dressing Psycho trope
became explicitly transphobic
in the campy 1980s Psycho ripoff, Dressed to Kill,
in which Michael Caine plays a transsexual psychiatrist
who, yes, dresses as a woman to kill women he's attracted to.
He was a transsexual.
What?
I'm a transsexual.
You see, there's some men and women, too,
think they're born in the wrong body.
They're called transsexuals,
and all they wanna do is have their sex changed.
It's all they wanna do, the transsexuals.
Dressed to Kill also ends with a psychiatric summing up,
where the doctor explains that Michael Caine
is a case of opposite sexes inhabiting the same body.
But it's the female Michael Caine who kills,
because, and I quote,
Elliot's penis became erect,
and Bobby took control,
trying to kill anyone that made Elliot masculinely,
sexual.
There's often a misogynistic trope
hiding behind the transphobic one.
It's the woman in the man who does the murders.
It's the mother's fault.
His mother was a clinging, demanding woman.
The most mature iteration of this trope,
the crown jewel of transphobic movies,
is, of course, the Silence of the Lambs,
which is honestly one of my favorite movies,
because Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins
are just radiant in it,
and also, I hate myself.
Silence of the Lambs is a story that's a little bit more,
I don't know.
It's a story of Buffalo Bill,
an animal lover and innovative seamstress.
Buffalo Bill is a trans-trender.
A trans-trender!
Who kills women to make a suit out of their skin,
because his application for sex reassignment was rejected,
because, according to Hannibal Lecter,
Billy is not a real transsexual.
Hannibal Lecter is a true scum.
There's so much gatekeeping of trans people,
I just want to use this opportunity
to reassure my trans audience that, even if you've only seen
one or two people, you're valid.
I entertained myself.
That's how I continue to struggle onwards.
Billy hates his own identity, you see,
and he thinks that makes him a transsexual,
but his pathology is a thousand times more savage
and more terrifying.
More savage and terrifying than being a transsexual?
Is that even possible?
Okay, it's definitely getting brighter in here,
because the sun is rising.
Silence of the Lambs differs, but it's not the only one.
Silence of the Lambs differs, but it's not the only one.
It differs from it's male-gazy predecessors
in that it kind of feels like a radical feminist movie.
Clarice is a perfect blend of strength and vulnerability,
and every man in this movie is a pig,
except maybe Hannibal Lecter,
the only one who actually respects Clarice,
the only real gentleman,
with his Goldberg variations and his sketches
of the Duomo.
Chilton's a pig,
the entomologist is a swine,
even Crawford's kind of a pig.
The Pigs are Pigs,
Migs is Pigs,
and Buffalo Bill is the ultimate pig.
And Buffalo Bill is the ultimate pig.
And Buffalo Bill is the ultimate pig.
And Buffalo Bill is the ultimate pig.
The ultimate pig.
Die Uberschwein.
It's in the original Sherman.
The fuck am I talking about?
What?
And he's obsessed with death's head moths, this demonization of the most self-congratulatory
metaphor for gender transformation.
I can't believe I finally emerged as a beautiful butterfly.
Show don't tell, Lily.
Oh my god, I can't wait till trans people have so many rights that it's okay to make
fun of us.
There's a lot to work with.
So Silence of the Lambs is a good movie.
I'm not saying it's inherently wrong to make a movie or write a book about a transgender
serial killer, but there is an issue of representation.
You know, for decades there was close to zero good representation of trans people in movies
or TV, but a whole host of cross-dressing serial killers, and that has an effect on
the way people think.
When it comes time to debate bathroom bills, and people are subconsciously remembering
psycho, that has serious consequences for trans people.
It's getting so bright in here.
The sun has, like, the sun has risen.
And it's also not psychologically good for us to grow up only seeing monstrous caricatures
of ourselves in media.
Like even as late as my early 20s, I didn't know any trans people, but I'd seen these
transgender horror movies.
I think the most positive approximation of representation I knew about was, like, Frankenfurter
and Divine.
And both of them are also psychotic murderers, just, you know, in a fun way.
Should've just gotten her those chocolates.
Or those cha-cha heels.
So I knew back then I was some kind of a trans, but I guess I felt that it was basically the
moral equivalent of being a serial killer.
Not something you tell other people about, that's for sure.
And things have changed in the last 10 years.
I mean, it's a different world for trans people than it was.
There's trans people now who are 10 years younger than me who don't even hate themselves.
Can't relate.
So this takes us back to 2020 and troubled blood.
Joanne has written a book about a serial killer who is a serial killer.
And she's a serial killer.
A serial killer who dresses as a woman to kill women.
Groundbreaking.
Now this is such a cliche that you'd kind of expect a seasoned writer like J.K. Rowling
to subvert it somehow.
Give us a remix.
Turn it on its head.
Humanize the monster in an unexpected way.
You know, give her a little Half-Blood Prince moment.
Or at least do something new with it.
But she really doesn't.
It's just Buffalo Bill all over again.
I guess I should read you some passages.
I'm reading it on my phone.
I'm not bringing the book out and...
Pretending to read on the book.
You can see from my little bookmarks that I read the physical book.
Yes, I'm a YouTuber.
And yes, I read a book.
So here's the psychiatrist.
There's always a psychiatrist, isn't there?
Here's the psychiatrist's diagnosis of Dennis Creed.
He's a classic sociopath, you see.
A pure example of the type.
He scores very highly on the dark triad.
Narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy.
Devious, sadistic, unrepentant, and extremely egotistical.
He's a man of his word.
He's a man of his word.
He's a man of his word.
He's a man of his word.
He's a man of his word.
He's a man of his word.
He's a man of his word.
You see, he's what we in the medical profession call the baddie.
Clint Curtis says, quote, it excited me to watch a woman who didn't know ones was being
observed.
I'd do it to my sisters.
But I'd creep up to lit windows as well.
If I got lucky, I'd see women or girls undressing, adjusting themselves, or even a glimpse of
nudity.
I was aroused not only by the obviously sensual aspects, but by the sense of power.
In the book, I opening my eyes to my what I like to consider as true innocence.
So I'm opening my eyes.
So I'm opening my eyes.
So I'm opening my eyes.
getting older, wobbly, apparent To sleep down,".
And without having b slash boops, depression, maybe the late mid days.
Maybe in bed, just it gets annoying.
I stole something of their essence from them, taking that which they had thought private and
hidden. He soon progressed to stealing women's underwear from neighbors' washing lines and even
from his grandmother, Ina. These he enjoyed wearing in secret and masturbating in. Remember when she
wrote books about wizard school? Ho ho, dear readers. So Dennis Creed is characterized as a
narcissistic male fetishist who preys on women. And like, okay, there really are men who fetishize
women's clothes, for example. I mean, Freud talked about this, right? Partialism, where sexuality
focuses on a body part or an article of clothing. And Freud theorized that fetishes emerge from the
unconscious trauma that occurs when men discover that women don't have a penis.
Boy, have I got news for Dr. Freud. But considering that Joanne has been doing a lot of gender
critical research, she's been doing a lot of research on the fact that women don't have a penis.
Reading over the past few years, it's kind of hard for me to ignore that narcissistic male
fetishist who preys on women is exactly the way a lot of TERFs characterize trans women. Remember,
the whole gender critical feminists with concerns about trans youth routine is obfuscation. These
people are bigots. And it's a pretty common canard among TERFs that trans women are hypersexual
and hyperaggressive.
Right? These inherently pornographic sex demons. But can't we just have a reasonable debate about
this? Are trans women sex demons? Why, yes. Yes, we are. The bigots are simply correct.
We're sex demons. You can't even talk to these people. Like, how do you engage with this level
of vilification? I used to take the bait and argue that, no, actually, I'm not a sex demon.
Unless you want me to be. But it's counterproductive to make that argument.
Why? Because my not-involved-in-human-trafficking t-shirt has people asking a lot of questions
already answered by my shirt. So I have a hard time believing that the character Dennis Creed
has nothing to do with Joanne's beliefs about trans people. And I also want to note that
Dennis' cross-dressing is described not just as part of the sexual satisfaction he gains from
invading women's privacy and invading women's bodies, but also as a deliberate strategy of
deception.
This says, on page 854, so you know I actually read this fucking shit.
In a wig, bit of lipstick. They think you're harmless. Odd. Maybe queer. You're the nice man
who's safe.
And earlier he's described as
Dennis Creed had been a meticulous planner, a genius of misdirection in his neat little white
van. Dressed in the pink coat he had stolen from Vi Cooper and sometimes wearing a wig that,
from a distance to a drunk victim, gave his hazy form a feminine appearance,
so that it would be an expression that made him look like a man.
But his head was long enough for his large hands to close over a gasping mouth.
So this character, sprung from Joanne's imagination, cross-dresses as a way to disarm his victims.
They mistake him for a woman. Or as, you know. And that causes them to lower their guard.
And this reminds me of one of Maya Forstadter's allegedly transphobic tweets.
Pronouns are a hypno. Important article by Hairy Leg Tarpy.
A.K.A. Wolfamort.
She who must not be a woman. But who is. She who must not be a man. She who must not be a woman.
I am the woman. I am the woman. I am the woman. I am the woman.
I am the woman. I am the woman. I am the woman. I am the woman.
She who must not be named.
Followed by J.K. Rowling.
Because of course.
Pronouns are Rohypnol.
Rohypnol is Roofies.
And there's a picture of a pill with she on it.
Pronouns are like Rohypnol.
They dull your defenses.
They change your inhibitions.
They're meant to.
You've had a lifetime's experience learning to be alert to him and to relax to her.
For good reason.
These instinctive responses keep you safe.
It's not even a conscious thing.
It's like the hairs standing on end.
Your subconscious brain is helping you not get eaten by the saber-toothed tiger that
your eyes haven't noticed yet.
I want to be alert.
I want others to be alert.
I want people to see the real picture and I want those instinctive reactions that we
feel when something is wrong to be unblunted, undulled by this cheap but effective psychological
trick.
I feel like I owe this to myself.
And I absolutely owe it to other women.
And more than anything, I owe this to girls.
I don't want to play even the tiniest.
I don't want to play even the tiniest part in grooming them to disregard their natural
protective instincts.
Those instincts are there for a reason.
To keep them safe.
They need those instincts intact and sharp.
And that's why I won't use preferred pronouns.
Using Rohypnol on others isn't a courtesy.
Okay.
So, these are the thoughts of someone who's been hurt.
Speaking of which.
Let's return now.
The reason that JK Rowling feels her interest in trans people is intensely personal.
I was born this way.
Born as a fucking idiot.
I made a gin martini because I'm 200 years old.
It's kind of an Agatha drink.
Well, I'm a 200 year old witch.
That's the plot.
Pay attention.
It makes sense.
Also, a martini.
What is a martini?
It's an excuse to drink a glass of gin.
I should probably, um, probably eat an olive.
Or this is going to go straight to my fucking, my brain.
Okay, we have to be serious now.
In Turf Wars, Joanne writes,
I've been in the public eye for a long time.
I've been in the public eye for a long time.
I've been in the public eye for a long time.
I've been in the public eye for a long time.
I've been in the public eye for a long time.
I've been in the public eye now for over 20 years, and I have never talked publicly
about being a domestic abuse and sexual assault survivor.
On Saturday morning, I read that the Scottish government is proceeding with its controversial
gender recognition plans, which will, in effect, mean that all a man needs to do to become
a woman is to say he's one.
To use a very contemporary word, I was triggered, ground down by the relentless attacks from
trans activists on social media.
I spent much of Saturday in a very dark place.
Inside my head as memories of a serious sexual assault I suffered in my twenties recurred
on a loop.
I couldn't shut out those memories, and I was finding it hard to contain my anger and
disappointment about the way I believe my government is playing fast and loose with
women's and girls' safety.
Okay, so for Joanne, her traumatic experience being attacked by a man is psychologically
related to her concerns about the legal recognition of trans people.
And about trans people saying nasty things about her on Twitter.
She feels intensely about this issue, because the discourse around it literally triggers
her PTSD.
In her own words,
The scars left by violence and sexual assault don't disappear, no matter how loved you are
and no matter how much money you've made.
My perennial jumpiness is a family joke, and even I know it's funny, but I pray my daughters
never have the same reasons I do for hating sudden loud noises or finding people behind me when I'm in trouble.
A common symptom of trauma is hypervigilance, a constant alertness to danger.
This is described in a very wise book called Conflict Is Not Abuse by Sarah Shulman.
The traumatized person's sense of their ability to protect themselves has been damaged
or destroyed.
They feel endangered even if there is no actual danger in the present, because in the past
they have experienced profoundly invasive cruelty and they know it is possible.
I want to respect that having a trauma trigger response is a real experience of suffering
that is not the victim's fault, even in cases where that response is irrational or politically
incorrect.
For example, if you got mugged by a black teenager, I wouldn't judge you if you felt
a little jumpy around black teenagers for a while.
However, if that jumpiness motivates you to become a campaigner for more militant policing
of black neighborhoods,
then you are participating in anti-black racism, and that I will criticize, regardless of
your trauma.
I hope it goes without saying that trans people gaining easier access to legal recognition
in Scotland in 2020 is completely unrelated to Joanne Rowling being assaulted by a cis
man in the 1990s.
This is a non sequitur.
So it's a little odd to me that, while Joanne is self-aware enough to recognize that her
hypervigilance is the result of a trauma trigger response, it's also a little odd to me that,
while Joanne is self-aware enough to recognize that her hypervigilance is the result of a
trauma trigger response, it's also a little odd to me that,
and she's self-aware enough to realize that her hypervigilance is often irrational to
the point where she herself finds humor in it,
she's somehow not self-aware enough to realize that her fears about trans people are an irrational
manifestation of that hypervigilance.
And again, it's not that I'm unsympathetic to her trauma, and I would be nothing but
sympathetic if her feelings about this amounted to simply being triggered by, for example,
perceiving
male in the women's bathroom. Which is something most trans women are sensitive to. Like I've spoken
to trans women who are worried they don't pass or who know they don't pass and who do everything
they can to avoid using a public bathroom because they don't want to make cis women uncomfortable.
So these trans women go through life every day compromising their own comfort and safety
to protect cis women's feelings of comfort and safety. But Joanne's transphobia has so outgrown
the scope of an automatic trigger response, it's become a fixation for years. To the point where
she's written a 900 page novel about a serial killer who cross-dresses to trick women into
being less vigilant. And now the primary political cause she's decided to use her superstardom to
champion is opposition to trans liberation. And past trauma is just not an excuse for that.
Like if you're against gay marriage because you were
traumatized by a trans woman, you're against gay marriage because you were traumatized by a trans woman.
Like if you're against gay marriage because you were traumatized by a trans woman, you're against
gay marriage because you were traumatized by a trans woman, you're against gay marriage because you were traumatized
as a child when your father left your mother for a man, you're still a homophobe, right? You're not
less of a bigot because your bigotry has a tragic backstory. In fact, bigotry often has a tragic
backstory. Bigotry involves feelings of being threatened or attacked, so it's often rooted in
trauma. After the collective trauma of 9-11, Americans felt threatened not just by Al-Qaeda
but by the entire religion of Islam. And this was used and is still being used to justify wars, to
discrimination, travel bans, hate crimes. Feelings of victimization are often used as a justification
for aggression. And when the target of that aggression is a marginalized group,
the result is bigotry. Now what TERFs say is that it's actually the trans activists
who are the real aggressors, who are the real bigots. Trans women are men, they're agents of the
patriarchy, creepy perverts demanding access to female spaces. TERF is a misogynistic slur designed to
silence women. It's biological women who are the real victims. The real victim. So often in debates
on social issues, we're faced with two opposing sides, both claiming to be the victim, and we're
often told to believe victims, believe marginalized people. Well, if only it was that easy. So often the
exact point in question is who is the victim and who's the oppressor. That book I quoted earlier,
Conflict Is Not Abuse,
describes the way the overstatement of harm
is used as a justification for cruelty
in situations ranging from romantic relationships
to international affairs.
Bullies often conceptualize themselves
as being under attack
when they are the ones originating the pain.
Throughout Joanne's essay,
she frequently represents herself
as taking a defiant, free-speechy stand against
accusations and threats from trans activists.
The trans activists who declare
that TERFs need punching and re-educating.
Huge numbers of women are justifiably terrified
by the trans activists.
And in her subsequent tweets,
she frames herself as the victim of a witch hunt.
Sometimes a T-shirt just speaks to you.
This witch doesn't burn.
This is the new Salem.
Women are being attacked online
for taking a stand against the transsexuals.
This witch doesn't burn.
Let's see what else we have for sale
at wildwomenworkshop.com.
Fuck your pronouns.
Trans men are my sisters.
Sorry about your dick, bro.
That's a good one.
I'd wear that.
Don't call me sis.
Sis is a vile slur against my tender normality.
Must be really hard for you.
Not being a .
War is peace.
Freedom is slavery.
Ignorance is strength.
Trans women are women.
Got the sense of persecution.
This is Orwell's nightmare?
This is how Nazi Germany started?
First, Hitler told us
he told the transgenders
they were super-hecking valid uwu.
Then he burned their books out.
Wait.
Oh, no.
That's actually the opposite of what happened.
Slurs.
Feminist T-shirt.
Nice trilby.
It's very dapper.
Slurs.
Man-hater.
Feminazi.
Prude.
Witch.
Bigot.
Wait, bigot?
Are we reclaiming bigot now?
Is bigot a slur used to silence the females?
Anne wrote in her essay
that she was standing up in solidarity with
women who have histories like mine
who've been slurred as bigots
for having concerns around single-sex spaces.
Slurred as bigots.
There's something so revealing about the claim
that bigot is a slur
because so much of indirect bigotry
is an attempt to reverse the roles of victim and aggressor.
Isn't calling people bigots the real bigotry?
It's good.
It's very clever.
A white racist will hardly ever use
the phrase white supremacy.
No, they say white genocide.
Always on the defensive.
And now transphobes are bemoaning lesbian extinction.
The same conservative media,
who 10 years ago were portraying lesbians
as like angry, mannish ,
have now created this mythology of lesbians
as these virginal damsels in distress
who are threatened with invasion,
and now extinction.
On one front, by the dark cabal of endocrinologists
who are somehow coercing them into becoming men.
Elliot, no.
You can't possibly be doing this
because you're 33 years old
and capable of autonomous thought.
Clearly, you are tricked
by the transgender lesbian extinction agenda.
And on the other front, by trans women who, we're told,
are slurring as bigots.
Lesbians who won't sleep with them.
Joanne claims that none of the gender-critical women,
Joanne claims that none of the gender-critical women,
Joanne claims that none of the gender-critical women,
I've talked to, hates trans people.
On the contrary,
many of them become interested in this issue in the first place
out of concern for trans youth.
And they're hugely sympathetic towards trans adults
who simply want to live their lives.
But the only gender-critical women she mentions by name
are Maya Forstadter,
who I would not describe as hugely sympathetic to trans adults,
and Magdalene Burns,
about whom Joanne says,
Magdalene was an immense,
immensely brave young feminist and lesbian.
Magdalene was a great believer in the importance of biological sex,
and didn't believe lesbians should be called bigots
for not dating trans women with penises.
Okay, so I agree,
it would be awful to call someone a bigot
just because they don't want to date a woman with a penis.
But are you sure that's why people call Magdalene Burns a bigot?
Are you sure she hasn't said anything else about trans women
that might lead people to think she's less than a bigot?
Are you sure she hasn't said anything else about trans women that might lead people to think she's less than a bigot?
Are you sure she hasn't said anything else about trans women that might lead people to think she's less than a bigot?
Are you sure she hasn't said anything else about trans women that might lead people to think she's less than a bigot?
You are fucking blackface actors.
You aren't women.
You're men who get sexual kicks from being treated like women.
Fuck you and your dirty fucking perversions.
Our oppression isn't a fetish,
you pathetic, sick fuck.
Hugely sympathetic.
Hugely sympathetic.
Because Joanne claims that TERFs are hugely sympathetic to trans people,
and just don't want to be called bigots,
and because she constantly frames herself as the victim of terrifying trans activists who say mean things online,
I think it's fair for me to mention that this, right here,
is how I'm used to being spoken to and spoken about by TERFs.
When you're a trans woman online, TERFs pin you to the vivisection table.
They deadname and misgender you.
They mock your genitals.
They describe your gender.
They describe your surgery results as necrotic mutilated wounds.
They interpret your every feeling and experience as the manifestation of a sick, woman-hating fetish.
You know, in an unrelated video last year,
I mentioned being sexually assaulted by a man,
and I've since been told by TERFs,
essentially,
trans-identified males get sexual kicks from being treated like women.
Nathan probably enjoyed his so-called rape.
I don't even want to say that the mental,"bigmuch, huge, feels so romantic."
I hope I don't even need to say that the idea that trans women can't be raped because we'll
just enjoy it is a violently anti-feminist thought.
It's a thought that could only be believed no less by people who have spent days and weeks absorbing the dehumanizing propaganda
that TERF forums exist to promote.
who is in the room with me right now, she'd say,
I'm so sorry you've been treated that way,
but I too have been cruelly victimized online
by the trans activists.
And you know what?
I'm sure that's true.
When I listen to Joanne talk about being victimized
by trans Twitter, it's easy for me to sympathize
because trans Twitter has treated me the same way.
The vilification, the obsession, the fantasies of violence.
It's a pretty common occurrence for me
to look at my mentions and see people
with trans flag avatars posting things like.
Point of view, you are true scum
and Yoshi is gonna beat you to death with a golf club.
Hashtag yes all gamers.
Here's a thread where first they call me an anti-Semite
because three years ago I made a joke
about reptilian overlords.
And then they get mad because I said
I wanted to understand non-binary people
instead of just dogmatically believing things.
And they conclude.
So basically, fuck controversy.
For points, I want to bash her over the goddamn head
with a metal bat over and over again.
So this is the level of antipathy
that I attract from trans Twitter.
So when Joanne says she's been overwhelmed
by abusive messages, I'm inclined to believe her.
I'm sure her mentions are overwhelmed
with anime avatars saying things like.
J.K. Rowling is hypocritical trash
who literally walks millions of trans kids dead.
Harry Potter was always neoliberal garbage
and we should have seen this coming.
This dumb bitch doesn't deserve our empathy.
She deserves a backhand slap to the face.
And tweets like that are abusive.
It's not okay.
And I don't make any excuses for it.
I want to make it dark and stormy.
Sorry, I'll be right back.
Hi, I'm back.
It's good.
So I also think that there really is
an element of misogyny to them.
I had to put the drink down.
It's making me laugh.
You can't, you cannot talk about misogynistic
cyberbullying while holding a tropical drink.
It's just not possible to do with a straight face.
So I agree there really is an element of misogyny to this.
Misogyny is the most universal prejudice
and trans people are not immune.
Angry Twitter mobs are generally more vicious to women
regardless of whether their anger is justified.
There is a witch hunt impulse
that's still alive in our culture.
To be a famous woman is to constantly have every part
of your body and soul subject to endless critique.
If you're one pound overweight, they call you a fatty.
If you're one pound underweight,
they say you have an eating disorder.
And if you're exactly the right weight,
they call you a fatty with an eating disorder.
You know, it's a kind of crowdsourced abuse.
There's a reason Taylor Swift is obsessed with her haters.
When you're a famous woman,
it's hard not to be obsessed with your haters
because the haters bring the obsession to you.
But it's important to remember that haters
are not the same as bigots.
Being mean or rude or even abusive is not bigotry
unless it's tied to a history of oppression
or a backlash against a movement of equality.
So no, Mike Huckabee, homophobic is not a slur.
And no, David Silverman,
the word racist is not like the N-word.
And no, Joanne Rowling, bigot is not a slur.
Turf is not a slur.
And being canceled on Twitter may be a form of abuse,
but it's not a form of oppression.
And I say this as someone, at this point,
most known for complaining about cancel culture.
Oh God, is this my legacy?
A lot of trans people have been very mean,
verbally abusive even, to JK Rowling.
But most people criticizing Joanne,
or criticizing me for that matter,
might be hurt and angry, but they're not violent.
But when you're receiving hundreds or thousands of messages
full of hurt and anger and hate,
you experience it as one huge,
tidal wave of loathing crashing over you all at once.
And that 0.1% of messages that really are violent,
they become emblematic of the way
the whole experience feels.
And if you've been the victim of abuse before,
the experience can be pretty triggering.
So it's just not always as simple as the victim
and the abuser.
Sometimes victims are also abusers.
Sometimes abusers have a history
of victimization.
Sometimes righteously angry people cross a line
into abusive excess.
And not all abuse comes from a position of power.
Why are so many trans people on Twitter
so easily driven to extremes of rage and aggression?
Well, there's a passage in Conflict is Not Abuse
that I think applies just as well to trans Twitter
as it does to TERFs.
People living in unrecovered trauma
often behave in very similar ways
to the people who traumatize them.
Over and over, I have seen traumatized people
refuse to hear or engage information
that would alter their self-concepts,
even in ways that could bring them
more happiness and integrity.
The undiscovered traumatized person's refusal
is rooted in a panic that their fragile self
cannot bear interrogation,
that whatever is keeping them together is not flexible.
Perhaps because supremacy in some
produces trauma in others,
they can become mirror images.
And of course, many perpetrators
were or are victims themselves.
A lot of TERFs have been treated very horribly by men,
and they misdirect some reflection of that abuse
at trans people, a vulnerable group
who they can mostly get away with hurting.
Unlike standing up to powerful men, right?
Which would be dangerous and difficult.
And a lot of trans people have been very horribly treated
by men, by TERFs, by strangers on the street,
by their own families.
And for some of those trans people,
canceling celebrities on Twitter is the worst thing.
canceling celebrities on Twitter is the worst thing.
canceling celebrities on Twitter is the worst thing.
canceling celebrities on Twitter is the worst thing.
is the one kind of power they have.
Plus, a lot of extremely online trans people
really don't have a strong sense of conviction
in their own identity,
which is why they need constant external validation
to prop them up.
They need to constantly be told that they're valid,
that they really are the gender that they say they are.
And if someone even obliquely threatens or questions
their fragile self-concept, they lash out,
Twitter being their only weapon.
You know, Joanne, you say at the end of your essay
that all you're asking, all you want,
is empathy and understanding.
And I've tried to extend that to you in this video.
But trans people also deserve more empathy and understanding
than you've given them.
Sometimes you should look at some of these Twitter accounts
that are always raging against you
and raging against me, for that matter.
In between the raging, look at what they're doing.
They're begging, begging for money to pay for healthcare,
begging for money to pay for housing.
You are worth hundreds of millions of dollars, Joanne,
or pounds, or Gringotts, or whatever you people have.
And trans people are out here
literally begging for healthcare.
They're begging, Joanne.
How powerful could the trans agenda really be?
Joanne, you have so much power and influence,
many, many times more than what I have.
And I have much more power and influence
than most trans people.
You know, I am in a very different situation
than most trans people.
I have a lot of other things going for me in this world,
but a lot of them have nothing.
They have nothing, Joanne.
And I just think you should take that into consideration
next time you decide to speak out
about how trans activists are oppressing you.
Get it together, Gorge.
Are you listening to yourself?
What are you doing, Joanne?
You know, a lot of trans people have gone through life,
being rejected, and humiliated,
and excluded over and over again.
So they're traumatized.
They're easily triggered by anything that reminds them
of past betrayal and abandonment,
which is something I think you could empathize with.
Joanne, you are famous for writing a book
about a neglected and abused boy who lives in a closet
until he's whisked away to a magical world
where he and his freaky friends
find acceptance in each other.
I remember when I first met you all.
Biggest bunch of-
Misfits I ever set eyes on.
We're still a bunch of misfits.
Well, maybe, but we've all got each other.
So many trans people have found comfort in this story
and an escape from a world
that doesn't offer a lot of comfort to trans people.
So for you to use your fame and influence
to rally the backlash against trans acceptance,
it feels like a betrayal to a lot of people.
And I don't blame them for feeling that way.
I feel it too.
So Joanne,
Jo,
mother,
I'm sorry about the Twitter mob.
I know how much that sucks.
So if you ever want to take me up on it,
I'll buy you a drink to apologize for that.
But otherwise, I think we're done here.
As a trans person,
I like to believe in the power of human metamorphosis,
but I realized that at this point,
you're being constantly love bombed by transphobes
and constantly trashed by trans people.
So it would be pretty difficult to change tracks at this point.
You'd be one in a million if you pulled that off.
And I don't know Joanne, maybe you are one in a million.
I mean, you wrote The Prisoner of Azkaban
and that shit got me through fifth grade.
So who knows?
Maybe you have another miracle in you.
But I'm too old to believe in magic now.
So I'm not gonna sit around waiting for a letter to Hogwarts.
Okay, I guess that's it.
Mischief managed.
Menu chef.
They don't have any special menu in the store.
I did.
Who are they?
I don't know that.
Well, I guess that's it for this episode.
See you next times at 15 grand.
Bye-bye.
McKlessar, Gib's not even that интересно.
He is.
See you next time!
Bye-bye.
And there you go again,
poshlyогоorinthisame.com.
Probably not a smartass.
But your退ence was close enough.
But yeah, who am I talking to right now?
Mischief managed.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
