death death death death death is the only thing everyone fears
and the only thing that gets me off hello my devilish darlings i am lenora levay your hostess
of horror your rare and radiant maiden of mayhem tonight's program is about the death of meaning
itself the story is rather simple really the he's become she's and the she's become he's and those
in the middle are them and them and then my dreadful dears the western world shall surely
succumb to renewable energy affordable
energy affordable
healthcare and video games for lesbians
but there's one man who stands in the way the villain of tonight's thriller a meddling little
cipher of a man a man who prefers light to darkness reason to madness order to chaos
can you imagine his name is ben shapiro and his catchphrase facts don't care about your feelings
can our heroine put a stop to this
well i am just the executioner you my vile viewers must be the judge
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so
so so
so so
so so
so
so so good
so so good
the world is free
world is free
the world is free
the world is free
the world is free
we are happy
we're just on a hill
we aren't lonely
we don't hear
we don't hear
we're sent
we're sent
away
here we come
here we come
here we come
yale snowflakes ben shapiro destroys every college snowflake part seven ben shapiro crushes anti-free
speech college snowflake and ben shapiro destroy caitlyn jenner ben's especially notorious for his
provocative controversial politically incorrect snowflake smashing refusal to call transgender
people by their pronouns i'm willing to call caitlyn jenner caitlyn jenner i'm not willing
to call caitlyn generous she surprising you might think for a person so insistent on the value of
civil discussion and let's be civil right that's the tone of the day i'm a fan but ben seems to
abandon civility in his discussions of trans people preferring to fall back on his edgier
mantra facts don't care about your feelings and you know on this one point i actually agree with
ben it's true facts don't care about my feelings i dislike this trend toward regarding as a
conclusive argument the proposition this makes me feel invalidated because sometimes things that
make you feel bad are true
it makes me feel bad that i used to be a sexy sexy boy with rippling abs
but too bad for me because there i am indelibly exhibited on youtube for everyone to
gawk at forever i was a yum yum though build me a time machine doc we call this auto androphilia
nurse what can i say i like younger men i'm a cougar in tiger's clothing so look i want to be
treated like an adult i don't want to be indulged if i'm delusional i want to be disillusioned i
don't want people looking down on me i don't want people looking down on me i don't want people
looking down on me i don't want people looking down on me i don't want people looking down on me i don't want
people looking down on me i don't want people looking down on me i don't want people looking down on me i don't want
people looking down on me i don't want people looking down on me i don't want people looking down on me i don't want
people looking down on me i don't want people looking down on me i don't want people that are lying to me just
people that are lying to me just
people that are lying to me just to protect whatever deranged fantasy
to protect whatever deranged fantasy
to protect whatever deranged fantasy stories i need to tell myself to make it
stories i need to tell myself to make it
stories i need to tell myself to make it through the night
through the night
through the night it's probably just dry down there they're
it's probably just dry down there they're
it's probably just dry down there they're just ingrown hairs i'm sure plenty of
just ingrown hairs i'm sure plenty of
So look, Shapiro, Benny, baby, I invite you to disenchant all of my fairy tales, to melt
away every crystal of my snowflakery, and henceforth dispense only the most scalding
tea.
All right, big boy?
Let's have it.
I'm willing to call Caitlyn Jenner Caitlyn Jenner, I'm not willing to call Caitlyn Jenner
a she.
Because you can't change her sex, you can change her name.
Caitlyn Jenner is a man, a biological man, and if he were born with high doses of estrogen
in his bloodstream, he would also not be a woman.
You're determined by your chromosomes.
So the argument is that what it means to be a she is to have a normal female karyotype,
that is, XX sex chromosomes.
And if you don't have that karyotype, then you're not a she, and to call you she would
be tantamount to a lie.
I was just wondering what you see the detriment of society, like why we can't like let a transgender
like woman be called she or something.
Because it is a lie.
So since you think that calling a trans woman she is a lie, and you think that what it means
to be a she is to have a normal female karyotype, then you're not a she.
You're not a she.
You're a normal female karyotype.
And if you think that when we call a trans woman she, we are saying that she has a normal
female karyotype.
But hold on, I'm a transgender woman, and I've never claimed to have a normal female
karyotype, and yet my friends, lovers, and most strangers call me she, her, miss, ma'am,
girlfriend, ladies — good girl, good girl.
Just like that.
Don't stop.
Don't stop.
Are all of us deluded about my biology?
No.
It is not I who misunderstands biology, Ben Shapiro.
It's the other way around.
It is you who misunderstands language.
You have deceptively framed the debate
as a debate about biology, which it is not.
We all agree on the biology.
The actual subject of the debate is the proper use of words,
such as he, she, man, and woman.
But how do we decide on the correct way to use a word?
Well, there are two kinds of arguments we could make,
descriptive or prescriptive.
If we take the descriptive approach,
then what we must do is act like anthropologists
and study the way a word, for instance, she,
is used by a linguistic community,
and whatever the social convention is is what's correct.
But if we take the prescriptive approach,
then we must make an argument
about the way the word she should be used,
meaning we either defer to an authority,
such as the dictionary,
or my ruler on your wrist, you naughty boy,
or we must have some goal that we want to accomplish
by approving some uses of the word and prohibiting others.
Now, if we take the descriptive approach,
you lose, Ben Shapiro, because most people call me she,
and that's all there is to it.
What's more, your usage of a she and a he is ungrammatical.
You don't put an article before a pronoun.
That's not how pronouns work, you silly dum-dum.
Also, human sex chromosomes were discovered in 1905,
while the English pronouns he and she
originate in the Proto-Germanic language
spoken during the pre-Roman Iron Age of Northern Europe,
beginning around 500 BCE.
Therefore, by insisting that the singular third-person
pronouns of the English language
refer specifically to karyotype,
it is you, and not I, who is a she.
I, who is breaking from linguistic tradition, Ben Shapiro.
However, as a trans woman,
it's not generally in my interest to defer to traditions.
So, let's try out a prescriptive approach.
Without simply appealing to the way a word is already used,
how do we decide how a word should be used?
Language is by nature ambiguous,
and the way we attempt to disambiguate it
is often motivated by political goals.
Ben Shapiro thinks we should not call trans women she,
because his political goal is to reinforce
rigid conservative gender roles.
Whereas, I think we should call trans women she,
because my political goal is to live in a society
where I can achieve the same level of sadness
and dysfunction as everyone else.
It's analogous to the debate about same-sex marriage
from a decade ago.
Opponents argue the dictionary
and legal definition of marriage
was union between a man and a woman.
And the definition shouldn't be changed,
because it's the definition.
And how am I supposed to explain to my child?
And on the other hand,
Gay people argued that the definition should be changed,
because they wanted to achieve the same level of sadness
and dysfunction as everyone else.
And they succeeded, because as it turns out,
you can in fact change the definitions of words.
The dictionary is simply a usage guide, it's not the Bible.
And for that matter, you can change the Bible.
I mean, have you read the contemporary English version?
The prose is atrocious, appalling.
I won't stand for this.
But unlike the debate about gay marriage,
the question about trans womanhood
is more than just a political and legal dispute.
It seems to me that whatever Church, State,
and Merriam-Webster decide, trans women already are,
and will continue to be, women.
And to see why, I want to elaborate on an argument
posed to Ben Shapiro by my sometime rival, Blair White.
Yes, even though she's one of the YouTubers whomst is bad.
The debate begins with Ben Shapiro asserting
his usual position that pronouns are used
to designate so-called biological men and biological women.
Blair responds by observing that Ben's way
of using pronouns is, in her case, completely impractical.
Well, if you and I were to go to a business dinner,
or any kind of dinner, and you were meeting me
at a restaurant, and I was there first,
and I was in an orange shirt, and you had to tell,
you know, the host, I'm here to meet my friend, Blair,
and they said, okay, and you had to describe me
to take me to the table, you wouldn't say the man
in the orange shirt, you would say Blair,
you would say her over there.
Ben then responds, saying,
I think there's some truth to that,
meaning that I think that there is a utility
to the use of pronouns, but that's not quite the same
as suggesting that a transgender woman is a she
in the objective sense.
And Blair responds to that
with what I think is a very good analogy.
For instance, if someone were to adopt children,
there's no biological basis for calling them
that kid's parents, because they're not.
Like, they're just literally not,
there's no link at all biologically,
but there is a social reason to do it,
and there's a legal reason to do it.
Let's expand on that analogy.
Suppose you're an adoptive parent,
and you're arguing with someone who says
your adopted child isn't really your child,
and you aren't really a parent.
As evidence, they point out that,
point to the dictionary definition of parent,
one that begets or brings forth offspring.
You did not beget or bring forth offspring, they argue,
therefore you are not a parent.
Facts don't care about your feelings.
No matter how much you love and care for this child,
you'll never be anything but a glorified kidnapper.
I think it's clear that the person who makes this argument
is being uncivil, yes, being provocative,
controversial, politically incorrect.
But they're not just impolite, they're also wrong.
Because an adoptive parent
is, socially and functionally,
just as real a parent as a biological parent.
And to say otherwise is not just rude, it's false.
So, what do you have to say to that, Ben Shapiro?
I would say that we actually do have different descriptions
for adoptive parents than biological parents, right?
You'll say in shorthand that they're parents,
because they're all different types of parents,
but we do say adoptive parents.
Right, adoptive parents,
an entirely valid type of parent.
To call them parents is not a lie.
And then the question becomes, okay, exactly, is the,
the context that you were suggesting matters?
In what context are we talking about the parents?
Are we talking about a PTA meeting?
Okay, this person is the legal guardian,
and therefore the parent,
because parenting has two aspects, right?
There's the biological parentage,
and then there is the actual role of parenting.
So yes, there are some contexts
where we do need to distinguish
between biological and adoptive parents.
For instance, if a doctor is assessing a child's risk
of some hereditary disease,
they need to know if the parents are adoptive or biological.
But at the PTA meeting, and in most other contexts,
it doesn't matter in the slightest.
In the dinner conversation,
the same thing sort of holds true,
meaning there is the biological role of woman,
which you are not,
and then there is the, you look like a woman,
which is, I'm gonna describe you as a woman to the waiter
when he comes to direct me to the table.
Just when Ben seems on the cusp
of having a breakthrough,
he and Blair pause their argument
to congratulate themselves on how civil their discussion is.
From what I've seen,
a lot of your interactions with trans people,
they always end up kind of ugly.
You know what I mean?
There was the, I think,
I think the person's name was Zoe Turr,
there was the threat of physical violence.
What are your genetics, sir?
You cut that out now, or you'll go home in an ambulance.
Yeah, I mean, what's hilarious about this, Blair,
is literally the exact same thing
that I'm saying to you right now
is exactly what I said to Zoe Turr on the air.
But that's not exactly true, is it, Ben?
Zoe threatened you after you called her sir,
and you didn't call Blair sir, did you?
Why did you call Zoe sir?
What kind of reaction were you hoping to elicit,
oh distinguished destroyer of snowflakes?
I suppose you were just sticking to the facts.
I suppose sir is a strictly biological term.
Queen Guinevere said in days of old,
I knight thee, Lancelot, thou that art karyotypically male.
And you're exactly right.
When people start yelling at each other or tweeting out F you,
that's not a great way to change my mind.
It turns out that's not particularly convincing.
So what is a great way to change your mind, Ben Shapiro?
Did Blair bud you an inch with her rationality,
her even temper, her civility, her aesthetic?
It doesn't seem like she's going to change your mind.
She did.
At the end of this debate,
you regurgitate your original position undigested.
You know, I'm the editor of a pretty major site,
and my basic rule is that
when we're discussing people who are trans,
we immediately say in the first paragraph trans woman,
and then refers to them by their biological pronoun,
because biology is the nature of the pronoun.
Biology is the nature of the pronouns?
Didn't Blair just demonstrate to you
that in most contexts that's not true for her?
Remember the analogy of adoptive parents.
There are some contexts where it makes sense
to distinguish between adoptive parents
and adoptive parents.
Likewise, there are some scientific and medical contexts
where it makes sense to distinguish
between transgender and cisgender,
or as you say, biological women.
For instance, when discussing who needs access
to certain reproductive healthcare
you think should be illegal.
But does this apply to pronouns?
That is, are pronouns technical biological terms
denoting karyotypes,
or are they part of the everyday language
we use to describe each other socially?
The answer is obvious.
There are no geneticists studying pronouns.
In fact, there is not a single biology textbook
with a chapter on the difference between
a he and a she.
There is no such thing as biological pronouns.
This is a phrase invented in the last decade
to describe the misgendering of trans people.
So as a trans woman,
I'm reintegrating myself into society as a woman.
She pronouns are therefore most appropriate for me,
regardless of my anatomy,
which is none of your business, Ben Shapiro.
Fascinating though it is.
And just as it's incorrect to tell an adoptive mother,
that she is a trans woman,
that her son is not her child,
to call me he is not just rude or insensitive.
It is, in effect, false.
But it is also rude and insensitive.
So even if you don't agree with me,
you could still not.
What's the harm, right?
I teach my almost four year old girl
that she can become a boy.
Then I think that is not only lying to her,
I think it's confusing her
and I think it's damaging to her psyche.
Oh yes, the classic argument.
How do I explain to my child?
Kill your shitty child for all I care.
That's simply not my problem.
I regret every night I spent with you, Ben Shapiro.
I'm in a new relationship now with a lesbian.
You and I are through.
I'm getting an abortion and you can't stop me.
It's disgusting what they allow on TV these days.
I won't allow my children to watch movies
unless there's at least a bloodbath or maybe an orgy.
But hey, I don't choose this schlock.
I just present it.
The second program
of tonight's science fiction double feature
is about a cult of chaos,
hell bent on destroying Western civilization.
I sure hope there's more sex and violence this time.
Hi boys, it's points again.
Same queen, new look, try to keep up.
In my previous video, nasty tea babe likes it rough,
I made an argument about why it's correct
to call trans women she,
but I'd be bullshitting you
if I only discussed fully integrated binary trans people.
Everyone basically calls them by their pronouns already.
Dingbats like Ben Shapiro have to exert conscious effort
to continue the charade of misgendering them.
The transgender woman from Orange is the New Black.
I never watched that show.
I've never watched that show either,
but she's on the cover of Time Magazine.
Oh.
Or he's on the cover of Time Magazine.
I limited my argument to trans women
who look the way society expects a woman to look
because cis people have an easier time making sense of that.
But the reality is that in a lot of cases,
it's a little more complicated.
Now, as far as early transition trans people go,
I am fairly integrated.
Society basically gets that I'm a woman.
Without me having to explain my gender,
strangers usually default to she, her, miss, ma'am.
Hey, haven't I seen your videos on tgirllove.com?
But the truth is, I don't pass perfectly.
I got called sir last week by the cashier at H&M.
Not that I usually deign to shop at H&M,
but needless to say, it was a desperate emergency.
And by emergency, I mean I met a cute busboy at P.F. Chang's.
What happened next stays between me and the Lord,
but suffice to say that my blouse was irrevocably drenched in-
Okay, I embellished the story a little.
He wasn't cute.
So between being six foot one,
the horrific transsexual squawking
I try to pass off as my voice,
and my tragic inability to conduct myself
in a manner befitting a lady of good breeding,
your girl remains,
despite my desperate, painstaking efforts,
somewhat clockable.
You look great, hun.
In that debate between Ben and Blair,
Blair says that
pronoun usage boils down to what you look like.
But it really does kind of boil down to what you look like.
And it's true that most strangers will choose a pronoun for you
largely based on your appearance.
So appearance definitely matters,
but in my opinion, passing,
in the sense of looking like a cis woman,
is really the most important thing.
What matters more to me is the kind of vibe you give off,
the way you speak, the gestures, the conversational dynamic.
That kind of stuff to me is what makes a person
viscerally seem like a man or a woman.
So my goal isn't necessarily
to serve unclockable fish,
so much as to embody a certain kind of
diaphanous archetypal femininity.
In layman's terms, girl dick energy.
Also, I am gonna have a lot of plastic surgery, thank God.
Last month, I released a video called
Sexy Furry Pounded by Skinny T-Babe.
And a lot of trans people got mad at me
because they thought I was saying
that performing your gender is the only thing that matters
and that how you identify counts for nothing.
But that's not what I think.
I do prefer to argue that trans women are women
because we live the lives of them,
because I think that's a much more compelling argument
than I'm a woman because I psychologically identify
as a woman, which in my experience
doesn't really persuade anyone.
It's just too easy to poke holes in it.
But identity definitely does matter,
especially when it comes to pronouns.
And I'll explain why.
Now first, I should acknowledge that a lot of cis people
are very sensitive about anyone telling them
what pronouns to use.
So I'm gonna try to be respectful of your feelings
and what a difficult and personal issue
this must be for you.
After all,
we live in a repressive political era
despite the best efforts of hero professor,
Jordan B. Peterson.
But alas, he was too late.
Now we have Bill C-16, which compels speech
and sends people to jail for,
oh, it's been more than a year since Bill C-16 passed?
Let's check in on how many people have gone to jail
for pronoun misuse.
Oh, I guess that was a false alarm, huh?
God damn it.
Look, I'm not gonna tell you what pronouns you have to use.
I'm just gonna tell you how I use pronouns
and my reasoning behind it.
And you are welcome to use your free speech
to choose how much of an obstinate hobgoblin you wanna be.
Okay?
So back to identity.
If I were a cashier at the Emporium of Ethereal Trinkets
and a customer were to walk in looking like this,
I might ordinarily defend myself.
I might ordinarily default to female pronouns,
but that would be wrong.
Since I happen to know this person is not only a man,
he is the man.
YouTube's most regal makeup artist,
his lordship, John McClane,
and he uses he, him pronouns.
Likewise, if I were approached by this person,
I'd fall in love and then default to female pronouns.
And this time I'd be correct,
but not because she's a cis woman or a trans woman,
but because she's gender fluid drag queen, Courtney Act,
who has the fucking audacity
to be a more beautiful woman than I am,
and who, so far as I know,
uses male pronouns in boy mode
and female pronouns in girl mode, as do most queens.
A lot of the complexities of gender, language,
identity, and expression get played out in the world of drag.
Some queens, like RuPaul, just identify as cis men
who live as men and perform as women.
Others, like Courtney, Sasha Velour, Jinx Monsoon,
Shea Coulee, and Violet Tchotchke, identify as non-binary.
Others still are bio queens,
cis women who perform as drag queens,
and then there are trans women who are also drag queens,
like Peppermint, Imp Queen, or, for that matter, me.
I mean, look at me.
Do you think I dress like this
when I go to 7-Eleven at 2 a.m.?
Because I do.
Look what I've become, a bisexual, transsexual drag queen.
Look, I didn't intend to become this much of a snowflake.
I just, through pure coincidence,
happened to be the most interesting
and unique person who ever lived.
I am so sorry, I can't help it.
So let's recap.
There are gender non-conforming men
who present very femme,
but use male pronouns.
There are cis men who use female pronouns
whenever they present female.
There are gender-fluid people who use different pronouns
depending on their current presentation.
There are pre-transition trans people
who identify as a gender
other than the one they present and live as,
and prefer other pronouns.
So you really can't just rely on the way a person looks,
because there's a lot of situations
where the way they look doesn't tell you the whole story.
So, as you can see, identity definitely is important,
but it's also not the only thing that matters.
If trans identity were the only thing that mattered,
then there would be no need for a trans person
to come out or do anything to transition,
including requesting different pronouns,
because pronouns belong to the social world of language,
not to individual psychology.
This is an idea I tried to explore in my sexy furry video.
You can identify however you like,
but gender is also social, structural, and interpersonal.
So if, for example, you're a trans woman
still living as a man,
then you are fully trans,
your identity is fully valid,
but until you begin living as a woman,
your womanhood remains kind of hypothetical.
And when I say living as a woman,
I don't mean passing.
There's too much emphasis on physical appearance,
and not enough on social relationships.
You know, you don't become a woman
the first time you put on a dress.
You become a woman the first time
an older female relative turns to you at a restaurant
and says, maybe you should order the salad, sweetie.
My point is not to invalidate anyone's identity.
As far as I'm concerned,
if a trans person hasn't transitioned yet,
they are fully trans.
I'm just trying to be realistic about the fact
that a lot of people's gendered experience
isn't entirely a product of how they identify.
Put it this way,
I will always use female pronouns for a trans woman,
but my thought process behind it isn't always the same.
Many trans women just seem like women to me,
in literally the same way that cis women seem like women.
And I use female pronouns for them effortlessly,
just as I was trained to do from birth.
This, I think, is the goal for most binary trans people.
We want not necessarily to pass perfectly,
just to seem like our genders to the people around us.
As Laura Jane Grace put it,
you want them to see you like they see every other girl.
I want people calling me she not out of politeness
or respect for my identity as a trans woman,
but just because I seem like a woman to them.
Because the reality is,
not all trans women seem like a woman to me
in that visceral way,
and I live with this constant crushing anxiety
that I don't seem like a woman to other people.
I'm terrified of looking like a third-rate drag queen,
and I cope with that fear
by looking like a second-rate drag queen.
But look, even if a person is giving my eyes and ears
a 0% woman, if she tells me she's a trans woman,
I'm gonna use female pronouns no matter what she looks like.
Not just to be polite,
but also because I wanna recognize the reality
of her psychological experience,
and especially because I wanna help her re-socialize
and reintegrate into the world as her true gender.
And of course, cis people,
you legally have the freedom to refuse to do that,
but if you refuse, you are being a shit-gibbon.
And I would prefer that you not be a shit-gibbon.
Now, we need to address the genderqueer elephant in the room.
An increasing number of people identify
not as male or female, but as non-binary,
an umbrella term encompassing a bunch of more specific labels
such as genderqueer, genderfluid, agender,
graygender, and so on.
Many of these people use a non-binary pronoun.
In English, usually they.
Now, if your first impulse is to argue
that singular they is ungrammatical nonsense,
consider that having gendered singular third-person pronouns
at all is a particular feature of the English language
that's by no means shared by all other languages,
including Turkish, Korean, and Finnish,
which don't have them at all.
Language is just a bunch of fucking sounds
coming out of your mouth
that humans make up to suit our purposes.
If you're new to using singular they,
it is a little confusing at first,
but with some practice, it gets pretty easy.
They poured milk on me.
I poured milk on them.
They did anoint themself in their milk,
and it was good, thus saith the Lord.
So the polite thing to do here,
is easy, if someone asks you to call them they,
you call them they.
But if you're like me,
you don't wanna just do a thing
because you dogmatically believe it's the woke thing to do.
You wanna understand why you're doing it.
I don't just wanna tolerate non-binary people.
I want to be a convert.
I wanna believe about them
what they believe about themselves,
so long as those beliefs are reasonable.
So what do all these words mean?
What are these people talking about?
Remember earlier, we distinguished gender expression
from gender identity.
John McClane is feminine
in expression, but a man in identity.
Whereas I am a woman in identity,
and in expression, I am a mess.
Let us meditate upon one of lesbian culture's
great contributions to humanity, art, science,
spirituality, sexuality, metaphysics, the Futsch scale.
The Futsch scale is a diagram that looks like this
and quantifies from one to 10,
or high femme to stone butch,
the gender expression of a given domain,
such as Mulan looks or Steven Universe characters.
It can also be used more abstractly for weapons,
Pokemon, or wind instruments.
Maybe what non-binary people are trying to do
with words like genderqueer, agender, graygender, and so on
is to give to identity the same kind of specificity
the Futsch scale gives to expression.
But my input on this isn't really worth that much
because I'm not non-binary.
And to tell you the truth,
I kind of feel for cis people here
because all this talk about gender identity,
a lot of the time, I don't really get it either.
I look inside myself and ask,
do I feel like a man or a woman?
And over these years,
the answer is still that I feel like shit.
And that's how I experience gender.
I live, I exist as a woman,
which is the only way I can achieve
the same level of sadness and dysfunction as everyone else.
And I identify as trash.
I guess there are certain moments
that make me feel like a natural woman.
Oh, listening to Aretha Franklin,
the pain and ecstasy of penetration,
waiting in a long ass line for the restroom,
a big strong arm around my waist,
being asked if I have any tampons, having tampons,
in case someone asks,
a dude explaining philosophy 101 to me
and me going, oh really?
Wow.
But you know,
these experiences mean different things to different people.
So all I can really tell you is that
I prefer to express myself with diaphanous feminine gestures,
that taking female hormones
and having feminizing medical procedures
makes me feel more at home in my body,
and that I like it when other people treat me as a woman,
socially, spiritually, sexually.
So that's the jargon-free explanation of my gender
as I see it.
I don't even know what that would mean,
but I do know that the life I live as a woman
is the only life I have,
and that, I think, is legitimate enough.
So, I know what living as a woman means to me,
but what does it mean to live a non-binary life?
Well, just like what it means to be a man or a woman,
that's something that's gonna vary
between individuals and cultures.
Some cultures have ancient third gender traditions,
such as the Hydra of South Asia,
a local tribe that was born in the Middle East,
and some of them have a lot of history
that has been passed down for generations.
In Asia, a legally recognized gender
in India, Pakistan, Nepal, and Bangladesh
wore the various two-spirit traditions
of indigenous North American tribes.
Non-indigenous American culture
doesn't have a third gender tradition,
but we do have individual non-binary people,
some of whom are making content
that has taught me a lot about non-binary experience,
non-binary bodies, and non-binary life.
We have a lot in common,
binary and non-binary trans people.
Even as a binary trans person,
I used to live as one gender,
and now I live as another gender.
In itself is a pretty serious challenge
to the stability of the binary,
but many of the people who call themselves non-binary
seem to be fighting for something more radical
than what I'm fighting for,
at least in my personal life.
I'm just trying to assimilate
into a pre-existing female gender role.
As you can see by the normal way I'm dressed,
the traditional female garb of my culture.
No!
Whereas non-binary people
are trying to cast off these roles entirely,
trying to create the society that includes them.
And sometimes that puts me at cross-purposes
with some non-binary people who, for example,
promote the practice of always asking for someone's pronouns.
Whereas, I love it when people assume my gender,
provided they assume it correctly.
Otherwise, I will throw you
an imaginary Canadian pronoun jail.
But what we all agree on is that many trans,
non-binary, and gender non-conforming people
find it easier to navigate the world using pronouns
other than the ones that Ben Shapiro wants you to use.
If you want me to call you they,
I'm gonna call you they.
And though I cannot and will not force you, viewer,
to do or say anything,
I do hope you use your free will to freely choose
to use your freedom of speech to choose to do the same.
Freely.
Wow, at least there was a hideous monster this time.
I'm talking about the female lead.
Pfft, pfft.
The show's over.
I'm gonna go take my tits out at a funeral parlor.
So goodbye, my satanic subscribers.
Until next week,
go to hell.
Oh, oh, oh, this is who I am, yeah, oh.
We'll go hang in heaven, in heaven, in heaven.
Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh.
