the following program is a work of fiction created for educational artistic and harm
reduction purposes in compliance with the video corp terms of service i love video
i love the rules any resemblance to actual persons is a super crazy coincidence may the
grace of our lord jesus christ be with you t.s natalie win
war what is it good for absolutely guad sam everything according to the national institute
for strategic american liberty heritage enterprise prosperity commerce policy research
hi i'm jackie jackson you're listening to the freedom pod where it doesn't matter
what
you say it only matters that you say we don't discriminate here between what is true or false
or even downright dangerous that's none of my business it's none of america's business
the important thing is that you never stop talking because that's what freedom is all about
tonight the war on drugs how do we get these god damn junkies off the streets
my first guest is justine tableau leftist influencer and author of such books as
revolutionize your brand how to capitalize on communism the editor chooses the title
i didn't choose the title and my second guest is virginia lamb senior pastor at hope truth
ministries virginia let's begin with you every day in biden's america muslim cartoonist
rating freddie green in portugal movie 그러니 Entonces vamos les esforço di yielding
400 referring to what you do if not giving it your best version but let's Сам
im
the studio
do we share so no reaction
remember when you jak is~!
is you know we're like when you watchdeep listening right now we will leaving the is sometimes
através of the lost holy water times like ought to stop producing gambling right now angels listen no fear
Anarchy? What does that even mean? Jackie, the enemy has taken control of our culture.
The radical left and the corporate media, they're replacing the nuclear family with aimless
fornication. They're tearing apart the social fabric and normal Americans are being silenced.
That's why we're seeing all this woke, cancel culture, PC, CRT, SJW, globo, homo, pomo, nomo.
The people pushing this agenda, they don't want us resisting our captivity in Babylon.
And that's why we're seeing so many attacks today on the most persecuted minority in America,
the Christian majority. Virginia, I appreciate your pious gibberish, but could you be a little
more specific? Of course, Jackie. Religious liberties are under attack. We're losing our
right to teach biblical morality to children who are growing up in public schools run by
socialists. We're losing our right to teach biblical morality to children who are growing up
social engineers who laugh at God and would rather have gender neutral bathrooms and drag
queen story hour than teach young people about the wonder working power of the precious blood
of the lamb. Yes, we do still have a constitution in this country. I'm sorry that you feel offended
by it. Believe it or not, the founding fathers actually wanted to protect us from whatever
twisted necromancy these people think is Christianity. Jackie, these communists are
polluting the innocence of children.
And if you speak out against the grooming, they call you a bigot. Parents get no say anymore.
They're being vilified just for having legitimate concerns about the deviant lifestyles promoted in
schools. You know, one day your kids will come home and you won't even recognize them anymore.
That's the real agenda here. Sexual indoctrination. This generation that's coming up,
20% identify as LGBT, 40% are attempting suicide, and the remaining
70% are being delivered directly into the hands of pornographers, satanic cultists, or worse,
Episcopalians. No. No, I won't stand for that. I'm sorry, what does this have to do with drugs?
Well, everything. Addiction and sexual brokenness. These are two heads of the same serpent,
symptoms of the same cultural leprosy. Single mothers, weak, emasculated fathers,
childhood.
Is anyone going to ask me what I think? Why was I invited onto this podcast to sit here and listen
to the ramblings of a bigoted hate preacher? Well, God has nothing to do with hate. Christ is the
definition of love. Well, I'm not talking about Christ, Virginia. I'm talking about you. Justine,
if she doesn't hate anyone, then how can she be a bigot? You liberals call everyone who disagrees
with you a bigot. Exactly. Why can't you just leave your emotions out of it for once and have a calm,
rational conversation with people who have different opinions?
Okay, well, let's see how that goes. Jackie, regular Americans like me are just trying to
set people free from sexual brokenness and protect the rights of children. Kids who are struggling
with gender confusion should have the right to access reparative therapy that will make them
whole again. Reparative therapy? You mean handing gay children over to exorcists for years of torture?
What a terrible wound of self-disgust to inflict on young people, telling them they're broken and
polluted and they need God to make them whole. You people are selling the cure to a sickness
you created. Are you cancel-culturing me right now? Oh my god, she's totally cancel-culturing
you right now. Are you thought-policing me? No, I'm trying to stop you from thought-policing
everyone else. You're saying it should be a thought crime? You're saying that I am a thought
criminal? Justine, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't
because I happen to believe in the traditional biblical definition of marriage
between a man and a woman who form a covenant before God
who gave his only begotten son to wash away the sins of the world
when he died on the cross and was resurrected three days later,
all glory to his name.
Jackie, these are the silencing tactics of the radical left.
And I'm sure the blue check Twitter mob is already coming for me
because you can't say anything anymore.
And Christians like me, our voices are being silenced.
You know who's really being silenced?
People who are silent.
Being silent is a big part of being silenced.
That's what being silenced means.
So who's really being silenced?
Not people on podcasts.
Not rich morons screaming into the biggest megaphone in world history
about how silenced they are.
No, the people who are silenced are people we never hear from.
Because, and I really can't emphasize this enough,
they are silenced.
People in prison.
Queer teenagers in conservative towns.
The actual downtrodden and oppressed people of this country.
Not you, Miss America.
Not you, Mother Superior.
You're not silenced.
You just know that what you're saying is indefensible.
So you defend your right to say it.
Okay, but if I'm not being silenced,
then why can't I say the N-word?
Why do you want to say the N-word?
So I only have freedom of speech
when I can,
which conforms to your liberal ideology?
God, damn it, Jackson.
Um...
That sounds a little bit like...
Bein' silenced?
She's stonewalling me.
All over America today,
white parents are having to sit their children down
and explain that there's certain words they just can't say
because of the color of their skin.
Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr.
would be turned down.
turning in his grave.
Would he?
I mean, he's definitely turning in his grave,
but not for the reasons you think.
Jackie, can I bring this back on topic
and share the good news of the gospel?
That's not the topic.
I have prayed on this, and honestly,
the Holy Spirit has filled me with so much compassion
for young people struggling with same-sex temptation.
You know, when I look out at all these angry people
at the pride parade, doing all this sexual acting out
and wearing provocative clothing
in a desperate bid for attention,
I see the broken childhoods,
and I see the craving for acceptance and belonging,
and I feel for them.
I really do.
Wow, you're such a good person for taking pity
on the poor, sad homos.
You know, what you people really love
is the aesthetic of being compassionate,
but all you're really doing is calling into question
the worthiness of other people's lives.
Yeah, Virginia, why can't you just live and let live,
you know?
Whatever happened to love your neighbor?
Jackie, anyone who knows me will tell you
that I'm the most compassionate person that they know,
but love your neighbor doesn't mean anything goes.
And it certainly doesn't mean that we all just bow down
to the intimidation tactics of the secular ruling elite.
It doesn't mean that we can't ask questions
about this narrative we're all being force-fed
that God and scripture have no place
in American life anymore,
that we're all supposed to submit to the takeover of these Marxist plutocrats imposing their
queer ideology which says that if your child comes home from school and announces she's
a different gender this week, then you have no choice but to surrender her to the surgeon's
knife.
Slicing up tiny little children's bodies, that's where this is headed.
The shrine of Moloch.
Oh my god, no one is slicing up children's bodies, what are you talking about?
You absolute lunatic.
Well, speaking of the transgenders, in the interest of full disclosure, I feel I should
let our listeners know that one of our guests this week used to be a man.
Isn't that right, Justine Tableau?
Or should I say, Justin?
Oh come on, really?
Alright, we're doing this.
Are you smoking a cigarette in the studio?
Is this a throwback to the 1970s?
No, it's a throw forward to the 20 I don't give a fucks.
Well, don't mind if I do.
Nothing wrong with the proud history of good American tobacco.
Good Virginia tobacco.
Jackie.
The Freedom Podcast LLC does not endorse the sale or use of cigarettes, vaporizers or other
nicotine products to individuals under 21 years of age.
Some restrictions apply, results may vary.
Excuse me, Jackie, I'm really not comfortable with this.
I was not warned that there would be a transgender here today, and I really have nothing to say
to this eunuch servant of Jezebel.
Well, I wasn't planning to spend my day seated across from a goddamn exorcist, but here we
are.
Virginia.
Are you prepared to get splashed?
Then you can get out of the free speech zone, because you're about to get wet.
Excuse me?
I agreed to this podcast because I thought you were a conservative.
I'm a libertarian.
Anything goes baby USA.
Jackie, the problem with libertarians is that a society with no values cannot function.
Christians tried to warn you that if you changed the definition of marriage, it would be a
free for all.
And now, here we are.
96.5 genders are being taught in American classrooms.
It seems we've forgotten that God created Adam and Eve.
Not Adam and Eve, and Kai and Jaden, and Caden and Lilith and Ashton and Schuyler and Rainbow.
Homosexuality is a gateway drug to transgenderism.
And from there, it's just one step away to pedophilia and bestiality.
And that's the real agenda here.
These people want to lower the age of consent.
And legally.
They have socialized sodomy with all the beasts that walk the Earth and the birds
of the sea and all the fishes of the sky.
All of them?
What do Ready Slide and Random
Uh-huh.
You know what I thought?
Just...
Prejudice.
Still?
None?
None?
super provocative super brave and super bold we're living in Orwell's nightmare but you're
a freedom fighter and you refuse to be silenced amazing look I just think it's great that three
people with differing opinions can all sit down in a room and have a respectful conversation
well cheers to us is it great you know I don't think it's that great and I don't think there's
anything respectful about the two of you sitting here interrogating the morality of queer people
something you know absolutely nothing about oh I know more than you might think I used to be
a homosexual you what no I'm not doing this today I'm sorry you used to be a homosexual that's right
Jackie before I was saved here we go I used to be a lesbian that's who I thought I was I lived
that lifestyle you used to be a lesbian okay name five things you love about men this should be
good
gather around everyone let's all witness the power of Christ I'm sure this will be very convincing
I love the Lord who does not command me to be straight he commands me to be holy fear not
you will no longer live in shame for your creator will be your husband okay well if you want to be
the bride of Christ then by all means but you know keep it in the bedroom I'm tired of you
people shoving your lifestyle in everyone's face Virginia I'm confused I thought people
are just born that way like Jesus can't change that Jackie the mainstream media establishment
doesn't want you to know that people like me exist because that goes against their narrative
but recovered homosexuals should be allowed to tell our stories the ploy of the enemy is to make
us feel that we cannot change but what if every addict said well I'm just a junkie that's who I am
I sexually identify as a homosexual I'm just a junkie that's who I am I sexually identify as a
alcoholic so Jesus can't change me well that's a good point uh no it isn't gay is just a feeling
homosexual lust same-sex temptation that's a feeling not an identity like maybe you struggle
with wrath but you don't identify as wrathful maybe sometimes you want to punch a guy in the
face I want to punch you in the face and yet you haven't punched me lo and behold you have a
desire without acting on the desire when I was saved I left behind the false identity I used to
walk in and I was delivered by Christ's transformative love my old self has been
crucified with Christ it is no longer I who lives but Christ lives in me but before I made God Lord
of my desires I was controlled by sin by drugs by alcohol by homosexuality so you used to be cool
wow behold the power of Christ you think it's cool to be contaminated in fornication yes I do
it's pretty cool I'm sure we're all a little contaminated in fornication is this a joke
to you do you find this humorous yeah I don't because I have glimpsed the gates of hell
where unrepentant souls endure the horrors of sin away from God shut out from grace
tormented by unyielding guilt and shame
yes we've all been to Cincinnati can we wrap this back around to the drug topic Virginia
you're saying you used to be an addict that's right Jackie what were you addicted to Miracle
Whip veggie tales uh communion wafers maybe no I was addicted to alcohol to pornography
to lusting after women and to hype hype you Virginia lamb were a hype addict look Virginia
can you drop a quick story time on this because I am intrigued Jackie I would love to testify you
know growing up I never really felt connected to my mother girl not this when I left home I was lost
I was a wretch I was on fire and I rebuked that fire
I used foul language I went out clubbing I cut my hair off I gained weight I was tempted by same
sex attraction and I struggled with gender confusion you know I was always a little more
masculine I'd even started down the path toward transgendered I used to shoot up testosterone
that's why my voice is a little lower yeah the two of you sound kind of the same honestly if
I didn't know I don't think I could tell which one of you is the man neither of us is the man
Lynn though if anything this one's the man she he's the one injecting testosterone God has healed
the feminine within me all along God was tugging at my heart but for me the road to heaven led
through hell I felt a terrible void inside I lived in the flesh I lived in sin with another
woman hoping to satisfy that hunger here we go when I gazed upon her beauty I thought
sunlight had broken through the clouds but the light I saw was nothing but the fire of my own
wickedness I knew that lifestyle was wrong but I couldn't quit until she broke my heart and then
I was cast into the outer darkness yeah she probably got tired of your
Jesus it was like a part of me was ripped away
and I was left to face
brokenness alone what was she a capricorn no a sagittarius well there's your problem
next time maybe try a water sign stop interrupting i'm living for the drama jackie i was alone
i was suicidal i was an addict i was lost until one day i decided to go to church with my mom
and i was surrounded by these women singing what can wash away my sin what can make me whole again
nothing but the blood of jesus that washes white as snow and i felt this tingling all over my body
and i knew i was hearing the voice of god for the very first time not just the words of the hymn
but the voice of the father
speaking directly to me yes we all like music and suddenly my pain made sense
i don't have to live this way anymore in that moment i was transfigured by the holy spirit
i was cleansed i was healed i was delivered i was sanctified i was redeemed my guilty
stains were washed away and i exchanged my brokenness and pain for his loving grace okay so
i'm confused do you eat dick now what's your deal jackie my deal is that i entered the throne room
with a repentant heart and rebuked the enemy that keeps me from the father when i found jesus
i found someone who truly loves me and through obedience to him my identity is no longer in my
attractions but in christ you know what i think virginia i think that you are immoderate in love
and a moderate with substances and so you need an imaginary father figure to make all the rules
because you can't control yourself but your weakness doesn't mean that everyone else should
have to live in a state of enforced mental infancy mental infancy bondage to the flesh
is mental infancy i know justin the chains of sin i know the murmuring complaints of the flesh the itch the ache the shame and ill秒
I lived in mud. I lived in filth. I know the thorns, the seething cauldron, the great whirlwind
that whips sinners round an endless wheel of pain. But my shame was hammered to the cross
for those who belong to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires.
Virginia, who are you trying to impress with this ostentatious sexual anorexia? Who is the
beneficiary of your erotic constipation? God? I really don't think he cares, Gorge.
Celibacy is not a good deed. To me, this all just sounds like a lot of words to say that you're gay
and you hate yourself. I don't think I could have put it less succinctly myself.
Is it hate to worship the glory of God over the glory of self? Where's my nail? Is it hate to be
anchored to the Savior's will that leads me from temptation? Damn it. To walk with purpose,
abide by God's will? Damn it. Damn it. Damn it. Damn it. Damn it. Damn it. Damn it.
Abiding in the identity of who God made me? Is it hate to heal the brokenness and be made whole
through radical obedience to the Holy Spirit? Have you been made whole, Virginia? Because to me,
it sounds like you amputate half of your own soul and you call it sin and shame. Well,
that's my definition of sexual brokenness. Why am I being lectured about amputation by a castrato?
She's hilarious. She's a wit. We are all half angel and half beast.
The flesh must die so the spirit may live. The soul, by definition, is not the flesh.
Have you really wandered so far astray? Have you feasted with such profligacy on apples of
Sodom that you think the urge to fornicate is half the soul? No, Virginia, that's not what I think.
What I think is that you have a vulgar, cracker-barrel understanding of human sexuality
and you're on a save-the-children type moral crusade.
Because you lack the adult capacity to face the demons in your own head.
You talk about the flesh and same-sex temptation. Well, what even is that, Virginia?
I want specifics. What is this terrible thing you're so afraid you're gonna do if Jesus stops
holding your hand for 10 minutes? What? You think you're gonna rail a line of hype off a stripper's
tits? Excuse me? Answer this. What do you think erotic love is a design?
For? Wait, I know this one. Sex. No, that's too easy. Erotic love is not aimless pleasure-seeking.
It's a longing for connection, for recognition, for wholeness, to traverse the lonely void that
separates us from each other, to liberate repressed energy, to feel alive. Love is not the flesh.
It's not temptation. It's nothing like the urge to punch someone in the face. It's nothing like
being an alcoholic. It's not a craving. It's a yearning. The desire for reunion with our other
half, Aristophanes. But you people don't understand that. Because you are vulgarians. You
have no sense of humanity. And you have no sense of the erotic. Well, that sounds like a bunch of
liberal,
liberal,
liberal,
sexist bullcrap.
Jackie, your brain is so small. It's just so tiny. Look at me.
You're a dum-dum. Okay? And I'm gonna need you to stop talking.
As usual, the cancel culture woke stoppo is trying to silence me.
Shh, Jackie. I really am trying to silence you this time. Because you're so stupid. And I can't
stand it anymore. So shut up.
I'm giving you the bullshit.
giving you the plague liberal okay well i hope it kills me because i'm done see i'll never get sick
because every day i drink a pint of antifungal hedgehog medication doctors don't want you to
know about it i could not possibly be more done you may be done but i'm not well you people never
are are you you want to talk about yearning i mean i get it i used to live in shame i know the
insatiable longing to be with another woman yes we've all noticed let me tell you it is not
freedom it is bondage you do not possess the flesh justin tableau the flesh possesses you rebuke it
and be free or perish as a slave for the wages of sin is death but the gift of god is eternal life
and christ jesus our lord you people do love to rebuke things don't you justin the love you yearn
for can only be found in the sacrifice reward of your own blood jesus our lord you people do love to rebuke things don't you justin the love you yearn for can only
be found in Jesus. Only he can fill the void. I know. I used to be like you, Justin. I was lost.
I was blind. I was confused in my identity. I used to reject the gospel until my sin took
everything from me and I needed a savior. And then I called out to God for salvation
and he came to me as a loving father. It's not too late for you, Justin. You are so loved.
God loves you. But this? This is not God's intent for you. It is ridiculous to me that
you think you know God's intent. The height of cosmological narcissism. I'm sorry,
has Reddit gone offline? Have we run out of fedoras in America? I'm just trying to
understand why you hate God. I'm just trying to understand why you hate love.
God is love. Is he? The only love worth having. What you call love. The sin I used to live in.
The world, the flesh, and the devil. That only ever brought me pain. Yes, because heartbreak is
painful. Love is painful. The poets are unanimous. Love is bittersweet, says Sappho. Eros, giver of
pain. What's Sappho? A pagan pornographer. The sort of filth these people want to teach to
children. Well, if the Aeolian lyric poets can't tell us what love is, then goddammit,
I don't know who can.
God for one. God has a sexual plan for all of us. That's hot. God's plan is for male and female to
be one flesh. Men's and women's bodies fit together for the purpose of creating children.
You do realize you don't need a man to have a baby, right? Seminal fluids are not difficult
to come by, even in this economy. You have a guy? A semen guy? That's just most guys.
Look, I do need to brush up on my apologetics, but-
Since I'm among heathens, clearly, I will do my best to argue not from faith,
but from reason. I love reason. Do you? Tell me this, Justin, which is better? A love that is
eternal, or a love that can be ripped away at any moment? I'm sorry your girlfriend left you,
that must have been really hard. Just answer the question. Nothing is eternal, Virginia.
Except maybe sanctimonious assholes. Isn't a love that is eternal,
superior to a love that is fleeting? Yes, Socrates, it is certain. And don't you yearn?
Not just for a love in the moment, but for a love that lasts eternity? Yes, Socrates,
that is evident. And isn't eternal love what we call God? Yes, Virginia, we all want to be loved,
but sometimes we don't get what we want.
So you have-
I have no argument.
Do I really need an argument?
This is just a semantic trick. You're saying that God is eternal love, and then
magically that must exist because you defined it that way?
So you don't have an argument? I'm sorry.
Interesting.
I didn't prepare to have a debate about neoplatonism with a five-alarm lesbo
cosplaying as a trad wife. I'm supposed to take this seriously? Why? Why am I even here? What am
I doing? Why am I talking to these people? I think you're here because God led you here, Justin.
I don't think God leads people to podcasts. Clearly, this transgender identity of yours
is a defense against the emptiness you feel inside. There's a hunger in your soul. No pleasure
of the flesh can satisfy. Do you not feel the thirst in your body like a parched land? Well,
yeah, I feel the thirst.
I'm sure we all feel the thirst.
If I may quote Psalm 63.
Please don't.
You, God, are my God. Earnestly, I seek you. I thirst for you. My whole being longs for you
in a dry and parched land where there is no water. Because your love is better than life.
My lips will glorify you. I will praise you as long as I live. And in your name, I will raise up
my hands.
I will be fully satisfied as in the richest of foods. With singing lips, my mouth will praise you.
Virginia, go to therapy, says the delusional man who thinks he's a woman. You're the one who needs
to go to therapy. No, you go to therapy. I'll pray for you. I'll pray for you. I will pray
straight to Satan. Look, can't we just agree that we are all a little Looney Tunes? You have your
Jesus bullshit. You have your gender nonsense. And I, well, I'm sure I must have something.
The free market. Right. We all have our little delusions. The important thing is that we cling
to them. And we never let go, no matter how much evidence gets in the way. Because that's what
makes us free. And freedom is what makes America great. Other countries, they don't have choices.
But in America, we have the freedom to choose whatever we want. So can we do drugs? No,
that's illegal. I thought you said we could choose. Yes, but we have to make the right
choices. And what if we want to make the wrong choices? Well, the boot of the law will crush
you without mercy. You will be locked in a tiny cage. That is literally the opposite of freedom.
Well, we have to be tough on crime. It's the only way to keep this country free. We have to build,
rina.
more prisons. Who decides what the right and wrong choices are? Well, father decides. Father
always decides. And do you always do what father says? Of course, we always do what father says.
Why? Because father says so. Why can't you just admit that you hate God because you want to sleep
with men? Oh, I don't want to sleep with men. Yes, you do. You're a man who struggles with gender
confusion and same-sex temptation. No, I'm not. I'm a lesbian, just like you, girl. My heart was
also broken by a woman. I thought she was a cat girl. She turned out to be a fuck boy. You are a
straight man. I mean, at this point, I wish. But no, definitely a gay woman. We're all stuck with it.
Hold on. So you're attracted to women, but you became a woman. Does that mean you're attracted
to your...
Self? No.
In the mirror?
No, because I'm not a fucking animal that can't tell the difference between my own reflection
and a different person. Desire is always for something that you lack. You can't desire
yourself because you're already one with yourself. Desire feeds on absence. It reaches out across
a void. I don't know. I think if I was a lesbian, I'd fuck me.
Okay. Well, thank you for sharing.
Aren't a lot of serial killers transgender? Do you have bodies in your basement? You better watch
out or you're gonna be next. Are those clothes even yours? Or are you wearing the clothes of
your victims? Jackie, I will drizzle a red wine reduction over your liver, and I will feast upon
it. Jackie, these transsexuals, they're the greediest of all perverts. It's not enough for
you to possess a woman. You also have to appropriate female...
...female beauty for yourself. Who said anything about female beauty, Virginia? You're the
one who keeps bringing that up. Nice. Got her!
Shut up, dum-dum. I said it to hurt her, not to entertain you. You stay out of this.
Look, so you're a straight man. You could've had a wife. You could've raised a family.
Your life could've meant something. But you threw it all away? You really think having
babies is the only way to have a meaningful life? Do you have babies? Well, priests don't
have babies. Maybe think of queer people as priests. Except, you know, the people we
have sex with are adults. Whoa! Okay. That's Catholics. That's not Christians. It's kind
of crossing a line, don't you think? Oh, has free speech gone too far? Now it's gone too
far? Can we have a civil conversation, please? Is it impossible to have a civil conversation
in America today? Well, that ship has sailed and sunk. Virginia, I believe you are about
to exercise Christian humility by... ...having sex with a woman. I don't know. I don't know.
I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't
want to hear you 심erely explaining why your barren life of self-flagellation is more
meaningful than mine. I walk with the spirit until I go to glory. That's my meaning. Your
meaning...is what? To fabricate an already-fading illusion of feminine beauty until you rot
away unresurrected in the earth? And for what? To mutilate God's image and to live a lie?
Anything else would be a lie.
exists I'm sure his mind is bigger than yours and with or without your approval and understanding
I will always be the way I am look can't we reach a reasonable compromise I think you should have
the right to do whatever sick shit that you're into just leave children out of it like whatever
this is keep this away from children and that's why we should increase police funding to fight
the war on drugs I'm just trying to help you understand how lost you really are I know my
place in this world I've found a love family
belonging fellowship in the church have you found fellowship in the lgbt2a dollar sign community
well obviously not because it's a bunch of wounded people wounding each other case in point though
you are one of the worst I've ever seen so you're alone you're far from God's grace and you have
no cat girl gf can you honestly say that you're happy
you're far from God's grace and you have no cat girl gf can you honestly say that you're happy
that you're fulfilled that you have purpose that you have
still you're reliable and open and the way you seem and the reason for being here so
that you just be loved is
beautiful you say roll over surrender
for me
impressive
right
Hello?
Jesus.
Don't say that name in front of me.
How did you get in my house?
Oh, I get into a lot of people's houses.
Who are you?
What are you?
Well, I used to be an angel.
And now?
Let's just say I'm in a different line of work.
A satanic visitation.
At this time of year, at this time of night, in this part of the country, localized entirely within my bathroom?
Yes.
Is this going to be a weird sex thing?
Do you want it to be?
No.
Look, I've had a terrible day.
I'm really not in the mood for this.
Well, I can help you with that.
Can you?
Sure.
I can help with anything.
Depression, anxiety, insomnia.
Pain, boredom, failure, shame.
Shame?
Is it the shame?
Well, yeah, there's the shame.
There's always going to be the shame.
But it's a complex cocktail.
There's the heartbreak.
There's the loneliness, the self-loathing.
I'm a parched land, Luce.
I've got the hunger, the emptiness inside.
Oh, emptiness inside.
Well, baby girl, let me fill you up.
Let me fill you up.
Let me fill you up.
I thought you said this wasn't going to be a weird sex thing.
It's not a weird sex thing.
Potions, Justine.
Potions.
I have potions that will fill the emptiness inside.
Potions?
Elixirs, serums, tonics, medicaments.
Think of me as a salesman.
An apothecary.
A dealer.
Are you trying to get demonetized?
Sorry.
What potions do you have?
Well, this is one of my favorites.
It's called hype.
This will make you come alive.
You'll jump right out of your shell.
Say goodbye to shyness, self-doubt, inhibition.
You'll have energy, confidence, charisma.
You'll finally get things done.
You'll connect with people.
You'll always know just what to say.
Lucy, the time for that was about 12 hours ago.
At this point, I just want the pain to stop.
Pain?
Well, I surely have something for that.
It's called void.
One drop of this and all the pain will melt away.
The aches of the body.
The agitation of desire.
The sting of heartbreak.
Boredom.
Grief.
And shame.
All of that will fade away under a warm blanket of serenity and love.
Yes, I know what void is.
But that's a very hard potion.
And it's a dark path that I don't want to go down.
Baby, it's my job to lead people down dark paths.
You'd really rather sit there in your little tub of sadness?
All alone?
What, do you need a clear mind to process how bad you were on that podcast?
Because it was embarrassing.
Humiliating, honestly.
It was difficult to watch.
Shut up.
Is it some kind of masochism?
You just want to feel all the pain, man?
Because you're not impressing anyone.
I mean, what is your plan for this evening?
You're going to sit around stalking your ex on social media all night?
Because that is pathetic.
And it's so unnecessary.
Because you're choosing to feel bad.
When with one drop of void, you can be in bliss.
Pass.
The cool kids are doing it.
The cool kids are absolutely not doing it.
Because it's not the 90s.
Kids today are vaping Benadryl.
Don't you keep up with this?
Okay, I mean, I respect your choice.
But I'm not going anywhere.
I will stay right here.
And I will remind you every minute for hundreds of consecutive minutes that your pain is optional.
And I have the antidote right here.
But I guess you'd just rather feel pain.
And shame.
And humiliation.
And heartbreak.
And boredom.
Loneliness.
Despair.
Disappointment.
Failure.
Anguish.
Frustration.
Look, I'm a smart person, okay?
And I'm not going to let you turn me into some kind of pathetic junkie.
Pathetic?
Is it pathetic to feel good?
Because when I look at you, I see someone who feels bad.
And to me,
that's pathetic.
Well, the thing about that...
Okay, just give me the cocktail void.
Well, that didn't take a lot of convincing.
I thought I was going to be here all night.
Well, my will is weak, okay?
Can I have the potion, please?
Alright, well, let's be a little patient.
You should really do this the right way, okay?
It's called harm reduction.
What you're going to do is put one drop,
and only one drop,
of pure void into water.
This is important.
Do not do too many drops.
What happens if I do too many drops?
Oh, you'll probably die.
I'll die?
I told you it was important.
Well, how many drops is too many drops?
Well, it's difficult to say exactly.
It depends on a lot of factors.
Seriously?
But it's your first time.
So just do one.
So, do I just drink it, or...
Of course you drink it.
It's a purely fictional magical potion
utterly disconnected from any real-world social issues.
What else would you do with it?
Okay.
Good girl.
I don't feel anything.
Okay, well, give it a minute.
In about 15 seconds,
you are not going to know the meaning of the word pain.
Are you ready for that?
Lucy,
I have never been more ready for anything
in my god damn life.
There she goes.
Thank god!
Well don't thank god, thank me.
I will not have a father taking credit for my work.
Ahhhhh.
The Thin Sleeves
Boyfriend
To be continued...
Lucy? Lucy? Luciferia? Mother? A doctor? Mother-doctor? Doctor-mother? Mom? Mother-void? Mother-void?
Yes?
Help me, Doctor. I'm being cancelled.
Oh, no.
So a bunch of furries are mad at you online. So what?
You don't understand, Doctor. I'm in love with this furry.
You really are far from God. You're further from God than I am.
Lucy, can I get a drop?
A drop? I thought you didn't want to go down dark paths.
Doctor, my pain is at a ten.
I thought I was going to get to tempt you all over again. I'm a little disappointed,
honestly. I enjoy the thrill of the chase. But there's no chase with you. No chase at all.
You're easy. An easy little void slut. A slut for the void.
Lucy, if I wanted a sermon, I'd have called the other guy. Please, just give me the void so I can
fill the emptiness. If it's the void you want, the void you shall have. But you don't call me Lucy
anymore, understand?
Yes?
call me mommy now because I own you yes mommy dearest
you
Thank you.
Five drops already. Escalating, aren't we?
Well, yeah, because one drop doesn't really work anymore.
So you're going to do five drops?
Just to take the edge off. I need five drops to take the edge off, so I'm going to do five drops.
Oh, wow. If it's just to take the edge off, that's a very convincing argument. By all means, continue.
Well, thank you for being supportive. Cheers.
Thank you.
Cheers.
That was dumb. That was so dumb.
Shit.
I need to quit.
I've got to quit. I'm going to quit.
Oh, you're going to quit, are you?
Yes, Mother. I'm going to quit. I just...
Good luck.
I'll quit after one more drop.
Of course.
All right, that's it. Never again.
I'm quitting.
I quit.
I quit.
It's just a simple matter of giving up the only thing that makes me feel like life is worth living.
How hard could that be?
No. I can't do this. I can't do this.
Shit. Shit.
Lucy. Lucy, wake up. Lucy. Lucy!
Lucy, I'm with the flurry. Wake up, Lucy. Lucy, wake up. Wake up!
I'm with the flurry.
I'm with the flurry.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
