When you look into the pools of the 9-11 memorial at the World Trade Center, you start to ask
yourself questions.
Why is the world bad?
What did all these people die for?
Well, for freedom, I guess.
And like, American values?
But what are those values?
What kind of freedom is it that we have?
The 9-11 memorial shares the World Trade Center site with the largest shopping mall in Manhattan.
There's a Forever 21, an Under Armour, a Kate Spade, and a pair of shoes that I want,
but they're too expensive and my feet are too big and I'm too tall to wear high heels
anyway.
Ugh.
Fuckin' neoliberalism?
What even goes on in these big buildings?
I've been looking at them all my life, but I've never been inside one.
Are these the towers where the ruling lizards gather, drinking human blood, licking whipped
cream off the ends?
Are these the interns?
What the hell even is this country?
Just the same terrible shit copy-pasted all over the goddamn place.
Longhorn Steakhouse, Golden Corral, Staples, The Red Lobster, PetSmart, Chipotle, Fridays,
Dave & Buster's.
I guess it's not so bad, as long as you kick things up a notch.
Yes, I want to add the lava cakes to my order.
Dominoes?
Of course I want the fucking lava cakes.
I'm gonna put the cake on the pizza.
Put it all in me.
Fill me up.
Oh, goddammit.
It was so good, but I ate so much I think I'm gonna die.
Look what capitalism made me do.
...control of vast parts of territory all across the Middle East.
State foot number...
...state foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
...ами.
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
...amy.
...ami.
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
...amy.
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
State foot number...
slur against queer teenagers, but it comes from the movie Fight Club, where it refers
to a generation of white guys who have become adults only to find that they're worse off
than their fathers, that they don't have glamorous jobs, they don't have girlfriends, and, more
recently, that even in the escapist world of video games their absolute sovereignty
is being challenged.
I've devoted half my channel to chronicling the deranged consequences of this situation.
Anti-feminism, alpha males, pick-up artists, the surreal surge in support for a white ethnic
homeland.
But till now I haven't talked about the underlying causes, and it's important to
do that because, the thing is, the white men aren't even wrong that society is screwing
them in some way, it's just that it's screwing everyone else even more.
So the masculinist alt-right analysis of society is exactly upside down.
Guys, you are not under the thumb of a Jewish feminist plot to turn you into girly soyboy
cucks.
Cultural Marxism did not turn you into placid Ikea consumers.
Capitalism did.
So what you need to do is stop scapegoating non-whites, feminists, and trans people and
unite with the rest of us to actually do something about the real enemy, the blood-sucking goddamn
reptiles.
Chapter One.
Capitalism and Spirit.
Oh god, I sound like a philosopher.
Someone shut up.
Don't shoot me.
Remember that Nazi propaganda video where Richard Spencer says that a nation based on
freedom is just another place to go shopping?
A leftist could easily have said that.
We think of leftist analysis as being very materialistic, but there's a spiritual dimension
to it too.
Much of Karl Marx's early writings are primarily concerned with the state of the human soul
under capitalism, with the alienation of working not for yourself but for an employer who appropriates
the value of your work, with the fetishism of commodities, the investment of inanimate
objects with transcendence.
With the system of lies and delusions by which capitalism understands and justifies itself,
with fucking Comcast increasing my bill to $70 a month for no fucking reason.
No, I don't want a landline.
No one under the age of 60 wants a landline.
Of course, it's not just Marxists who complain about a capitalist malaise.
Fascists and conservatives notice it too, only they think the solution is to seek collective
meeting in ancient customs, racial chauvinism, or fight clubs.
And that shit's not really my scene.
I'm really more of a pursuit of individual happiness person, but I think that capitalism
as we know it is pretty bad at fostering individual happiness.
And here's why.
Chapter 2.
Alienated labor.
Ugh, this Marxist jargon sucks.
Let's come up with something new.
Chapter 2.
Shitty jobs.
Why is your job so shitty?
Well, probably it's because you work at the Comcast customer service call center, and
you spend your day dealing with whiny, entitled white bitches who don't understand that you're
just a lackey without any actual power.
And the system is organized so that people with no power just have to pointlessly shout
at each other.
You don't have any stake in the profit of Comcast as a company, so you don't really
have any reason to give a shit about the success of the corporate machine in which you are
a gear.
The CEO makes $36 million a year, while you make $14 an hour, which means that a lot of
the value of the work you're doing doesn't get paid to you, but goes straight up the
chain of command and into the pockets of the chief lizards.
The ruthless hierarchical structure of the company means that you're competing against
your fellow employees for a promotion, or even to not be laid off.
And if that happens, you'll end up competing against other unemployed people for another
shitty job as a concrete lifter, or a mud mule, or maybe even a coffee shop MacBook
person.
This means it's difficult to even experience companionship with the other people in your
shitty situation, because you're all being pitted against each other by the goddamn reptiles.
And it gets even worse, you could be employed by new age reptiles who force you to participate
in team building exercises.
Companies scavenger hunts, mandatory fun, which means that not only do you have a shitty
oppressive job, but you're not even allowed the basic pleasure of openly hating your life.
You have to constantly pretend that you're having fun, all for the sake of maintaining
the overlord's comfortable delusion that he's not your overlord.
These lizards are smart, and they keep coming up with more elaborate ways to lie to you.
If you work for Uber, they won't even be honest about the fact that you're their employee.
They'll call you an independent contractor.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
You get to be your own boss and set your own hours.
You only have to take out the initial loan, buy the car, pay the insurance, pay for the
cleaning, take on all the risk, and give Uber 25% without getting a guaranteed wage, benefits,
paid leave, or pension.
So much better than being an old-fashioned employee, right?
No, please don't transfer me to the billing department, they already transferred me here.
Chapter 3.
Advertising.
Is it pretentious to use chapters in a YouTube video?
What if each section is named after an episode in the Odyssey?
If you've lived your life in America, you've spent every day since birth assailed from
all directions by propaganda campaigns for cereals, and cigarettes, and sugar snacks,
and now you can't get no satisfaction.
Jesus, people have been complaining about advertising so long it's come to seem like
a basic feature of the human condition.
But it's not a basic feature of the human condition, it's a situation particular to
life under capitalism.
I mean, North Korea is a dystopian shithole, but at least the train station isn't cluttered
up with advertisements for- oh.
Oh.
Oh.
So many fans.
Contrapoints is a tankie confirmed.
A neoliberal tankie.
The purpose of advertising is to manufacture desires, which brands across the world spend
nearly $500 billion a year doing.
The ubiquity and apparent effectiveness of advertising seems to contradict one of the
fundamental assumptions of capitalist society, namely that we're all autonomous individuals
making rational choices in pursuit of our own well-being.
Advertising uses a lot of rhetorical strategies that are not-
very rational, for instance. Randomly correlating the product with sexual desire. Generating new
insecurities the product promises to alleviate. Associating the product with social status.
Associating the product with random famous people. Associating the product with degenerate decadence.
Associating the product with progressive social movements. Associating the product
with communist revolutions. Gazing longingly at dreamy Argentinian philosophy professors.
Join the clone army. Completely original lighting. Gay orgies. Love cannot survive
without diamonds. Is this rational? Does it help people make genuine decisions about their own best
interests? Of course not. The goal of advertising is not to satisfy the pre-existing needs that
people have. It's to endlessly create new needs. And that's a lot to keep up with and it takes a
lot of stamina. Which is why it's a good thing I discovered Vitalimax Plus. Every evening before
I start writing or shooting a video, I insert two Vitalimax Plus suppositories for a sustainable
blast in power. With all natural ginseng and opium extracts,
Vitalimax Plus gives me the reckless euphoria and indifference to paint that I need to get it in.
I start with a couple dozen oysters, eat some molly, maybe hit a couple ammels, then I take
my Vitalimax Plus and I'm ready to rip it open. Vitalimax. For bottoms.
Consumer society is all about goddamn lizards inventing desires which they implant in your
brain through advertising. Then they sell you the product that fulfills the desire that
they invented.
So what we have is a society built not around meeting basic human needs or maximizing human
happiness, but around the extravagant profits of powerful reptiles who tell you what to want and
then sell it to you. And this would be a grim state of affairs in any circumstances, but it's
especially egregious in a country where many of the basic needs are not met. On the one hand,
we have 40 million people living in this country with medical debt, spiraling tuition costs leading
college students to take out loans, and we have a society built not around meeting basic human needs,
but around the extravagant profits of powerful reptiles who tell you what to want and then sell it to you.
They may never escape, more than half a million homeless people, and 13 million children who have to go to school hungry.
And on the other hand, we apparently have the resources to mass produce $400 juice packet
squeezing machines and $300 luxury ice cubes, and there are apparently Americans who are
willing to spend $50 million on Barnett Newman paintings. I mean it's a fine painting, it's
got a lot of great red on it, but is it really worth the cost of feeding every homeless person
in America for two weeks?
Is this what an efficient economy looks like?
Is this what an efficient economy looks like?
Is this what an efficient economy looks like?
Is this what an efficient economy looks like?
Is this what an efficient economy looks like?
If GDP is your only measure of efficiency, then maybe, but shouldn't the economy serve
humanity rather than the other way around?
If millions of people are struggling under the weight of student debt, underemployment,
and outrageous medical costs, then who gives a shit how many golden donuts we can produce?
No cuts to Medicaid! Save our liberty!
What do I do with the gold on my fingers?
Canto 4, message to the rich.
All right you
filthy goddamn reptiles, listen up.
I have a pretty good barometer for internet politics, which is to say, politics. I mean,
I noticed the alt-right thing pretty early, and you can assign as much or as little significance
to that as you choose. But what I'm picking up at the moment is that people are getting
fucking mad, and they're starting to get mad specifically at you, the rich.
And you don't just have to trust my intuitions here. Recent polling data shows that a majority
of adults under the age of 30 do not support capitalism, and almost a third support socialism.
This is not the 80s anymore, you can't continue to be a rich person if you don't support capitalism.
You can't continue to get richer and richer while the rest of the country is underemployed,
in debt, and unable to afford healthcare.
What you're doing has been tried before, and it doesn't end well. You can't just
stroll around town dressed like this, and live in houses like this, when there are millions
of peasants who don't have enough to eat. They will eventually try to cut your heads off.
And judging by the mood I'm picking up on social media right now,
if you don't fix some shit and make life better for the masses, they are gonna cut your fucking
heads off. I mean, they won't actually cut your heads off, but they will try, and you'll have to
deploy militarized police, and you will crush them ruthlessly, but it's gonna be a whole thing,
bad for profits, and just all around a real inconvenience for you.
Nosy humanitarians will butt their heads in, and they're gonna make things awkward.
The point is, shit cannot continue the way it's going. Something is gonna have to change,
and we can do this the easy way, or the hard way. The choice is up to you.
Well?
Are you going?
To answer the phone?
There is no phone. There is only the sigh of the oppressed creature.
The heart of a heartless world. The soul of a soulless condition.
It's best to just try and ignore it.
Episode 5, Message to the Youth.
Alright kids, so you're angry. Well, good. The world sucks.
There's a lot to be angry about. What we have to do next,
is decide what to do with that anger. I don't think tweeting aggressively is gonna cut it.
So, what do we do?
Smash?
Tabby, get in here. Sit down.
Look, I know I've been kind of hard on you. Harsh words have been exchanged.
But I need young radicals like you in my life. The minute I stop listening to people like you,
is the minute I become irrelevant. So I apologize. I never meant to hurt you.
Baby, I'm sorry.
I mean look, I get it. Smashing is fun.
But we also need to have a real plan. That's all I'm saying.
So what's the plan?
Revolution.
Okay, yeah, revolution. I mean, you're right. Donald Trump is president. Fuck it. Revolution.
We've gotta get better people in office. We've gotta vote in a whole different kind of politician, right?
No, revolution.
Yes, I know, revolution. But what kind of revolution? Like,
Project Mayhem? Gather your muskets, ye militiamen, and water the Tree of Liberty? What?
No, I mean direct action.
Okay, so like,
a general strike?
No, end capitalism.
Tabby, I'm not trying to say I have all the answers here, because I really don't,
but I think we should at least try to come up with something a little more
substantive than just saying the word revolution. Like, I'm in support of radical movements.
Occupy Wall Street, 1960s uprisings, I think these kinds of movements can generate a lot of energy,
they shift the Overton window to the left, and they can have a big cultural impact. But none of them
so far has ended capitalism. And capitalism needs the state to maintain its power, and we can change
the state through electoral politics, so why not direct some serious energy toward that?
Well, revolutions have worked in Russia and China, but no elected politician has
ever even come close to ending capitalism in the US, so why do you think that will work?
What's to stop whoever you elect from getting absorbed by the same corrupt,
finance-backed system that every politician eventually has to swear allegiance to?
Well, you're not entirely wrong. But on the other hand, Chinese,
and Soviet communism were not exactly super great, and in any case, I'm having a little bit
of trouble imagining a 1917-style revolutionary army marching down Pennsylvania Avenue in 2018.
Shouldn't we focus on protecting abortion, and getting affordable healthcare and education,
and ending mass incarceration and other achievable goals? What if the 2020 election is postponed?
Well, then I will transition into you and become you unironically. Why not just be honest about
your political stance? Are you a democratic socialist, or would you actually support a
revolution?
Well, I prefer to just describe my positions and let others decide on the labels.
Now, for you, Contrapoints, I mean, you're still a heretic and an enemy of the
Imperium and you are a demonette of Slanesh and everything like that, but I still like you.
Well, what exactly are your positions?
Um, well...
Kill everyone now! Condone first-degree murder! Advocate cannibalism! Eat shit!
Filth are my politics? Eat reptiles?
Why do you keep saying reptiles when you mean capitalists?
Oh, because Marxist analysis is boring? And it's more interesting if the capitalists are reptiles?
But you sound like a conspiracy theorist. Aren't you discrediting yourself by using
David Icke's vocabulary?
Well, David Icke is selling a lot of books. Can the same be said of Horkheimer?
Have you read Horkheimer?
Yes.
Have you read Kropotkin?
Yes.
Have you read Bakunin?
No.
You really can't understand these issues until you've read Bakunin.
Have you read Plakhanov?
No.
Have you read Goldman?
Have you read Zetkin?
Have you read Gramsci?
Have you read Grindelwald?
Have you read Slobodan Zarathusian?
Have you read Sextus Arcanus?
Have you read Slot Skanarevsky?
TABBY!
I have half a PhD in reading tedious blowhards, and I'm telling you right now I ain't reading
any of that shit.
And if being an encyclopedia of long-winded Eastern Bloc gibberish is a prerequisite for
talking to you, then no one is going to listen to what you have to say.
I think I'm just gonna go.
This isn't really working out.
Wait.
TABBY.
Before you go, let me say one more thing.
If you ever change your mind about leaving, leaving me behind
Oh baby, bring it to me, bring your sweet lovin', bring it on home to me
Yeah, yeah
I know I laughed when you left, but now I only, I only hurt myself
Oh baby, bring it to me, bring your sweet love, bring it on home to me
Yeah, yeah
I'll bring you jewelry and money too
But that ain't all
Oh baby, bring it to me, bring your sweet love, bring it on home to me
Yeah, yeah
I know I'll always be your slave Until I'm buried, buried in my grave
TABBY
Bring it to me, bring your sweet love, bring it on home to me
we love, bring it on home to me, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Bring it on home, cat girl.
Unsubscribed.
It's fucking 2018, man.
