Hello, my devilish darlings! It is I, Lenora LaVey, your hostess of horror, and I'm here
to warn you that some viewers may find tonight's program disturbing. There will be discussion
of transphobic slurs and violence, and graphic displays of anime. Ugh. So if that's gonna
make you sad, please don't watch this. Unless you enjoy sadness. I know I do. But your macabre
mother wants you to take care of yourself, so here, I made you a wet pot of hot tea and
you can take it out on the balcony and pour it on some pedestrians. That always cheers
me up!
1. Traps
Gentlemen of the Academy, it is my duty to submit to you the findings of my latest memetic
research. Many sleepless nights have I lingered in all the great libraries of Europe, scrutinizing
volumes ancient and modern, in search of the answer to two fundamental questions. What
are traps? And be they gay?
With respect to the former inquiry, I adjure you that you will not be able to find any
answer to these questions.
2. A treatise by the lady scholar known as the pedantic Romantic, wherein the derivation
of the word trap is traced to patrons of animated pictures from the Orient.
Curious.
The chronicle begins in the first years of the present century, when devotees of picture
forums would proclaim the idiom, it's a trap, alongside the likeness of one Admiral
Akbar, to suggest that some manner of deception had taken place.
3. Contemporaneous.
The most notorious to this was a most whimsical mania for depictions of nymphic Japonesques,
to some of which the aforementioned slogan would be rejoined. The implication being
that the subject of the portrait was not in sooth a daughter of Eve, but rather that the
spectator had fallen prey to some manner of transvestite skullduggery.
Furthermore, it appears that from the first, the designation trap has signified not only
transvestites, but transeptites.
And this must needs be remarked, for it is evident such persons ofttimes inflame the
lust of ordinary men.
It is hence with respect to this phenomenon I pose my second question thus. Fellas, is
it gay?
I'm sorry, who are you talking to?
Gentlemen of the Academy, did you get thrown out of Dairy Queen again? It must needs be
remarked.
Please stop breaking into my room.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
You don't want to enter my house?
I shall be the queen of dairy.
I'm sure you will be.
Cross dresser!
Hi!
I'm Natalie Wynn.
Biological woman.
Can't we pan the camera down?
My hair is less high?
Are traps gay?
The meme that will not die.
Originating around 15 years ago on 4chan, the word trap refers to either a male crossdresser
or a trans woman, especially in a context
of neotenous kawaii decadence.
The meme, are traps gay, is a mostly jokey debate
about the sexuality of men attracted to dick girls,
futanari, MTFs.
You know, a lot of these men don't know or care
about the difference between a trans woman
and a crossdresser, so it's kind of pointless
to get hung up on that.
The meme peaked in popularity about a year ago
when someone released the worst specimens
of the white race into the wild.
All traps gay.
One of life's most important questions.
Are traps gay?
Traps are gay, yes.
Will there be transsexuals in the ethnic state?
Hopefully not.
To the men who meme about this topic,
it's all lighthearted fun.
It's part of a wider game they like to play
called Is It Gay?
You know, is it gay to have an MMF threesome
only if the balls touch?
Don't cross the streams.
And so on.
But to many trans women, the meme and the word trap itself
are highly offensive.
In fact, last year when I first proposed
making a video about this topic,
many trans people on Twitter were outraged
because they felt that this topic
is just too harmful to even discuss.
So here's the challenge I face making this video.
On the one hand, there's people who are gonna be upset
and offended that I'm making a video about this topic at all.
And on the other hand, there are people who think
this is all just harmless otaku shit posting
and who are gonna be annoyed by my trigger warnings.
But first, to the people who think it's too offensive,
here's what I have to say for myself.
I've always believed that if you wanna persuade anyone,
it helps to meet them where they're at.
And in this case, rtrapsgay is where people are at.
At one of my YouTube meetups,
I met a high school teacher who told me
that he overheard some of his male students
joking in the hallway about rtrapsgay.
When those teenage boys go home and Google rtrapsgay,
who do you wanna explain it to them?
Your choices are Milo Yiannopoulos, this guy,
a Scottish hate crime convict named Count Dankula,
or this tran.
And at the risk of sounding arrogant,
I think it should be me.
You know, as trans women, we have little influence,
in society.
The people who lead the conversations about us
are bigger and stronger than we are,
so we're like a jogger racing against a car.
The only way to win is to hijack the car.
And so, this video is my attempt to hijack the conversation
that straight men are having about us.
As always, my aspiration is to derive a woke conclusion
from edgy premises,
to shitpost my way to the moral high ground.
Now, straight men, isn't all this offense taking
just more politically correct cuckoldry
designed to take away your free speech?
Well, I assure you, there will be no taking
of your free speech on this channel,
unless you clock my makeup, dickbag.
Comment deleted.
But, if you wanna know why trans women are offended
by Are Traps Gay?, I'm happy to tell you.
Not to silence you, of course,
but just in case you have the intellectual curiosity
to wanna know why someone different from you
might be hurt by something that seems harmless to you.
So, well, let's put it this way.
Two, trans panic.
The 1990 documentary, Paris is Burning,
depicts the ball culture of black and Latinx
gay and transgender people in New York City
in the late 1980s.
One of the main storylines follows a trans woman
named Venus Extravaganza,
who describes her precarious existence as a sex worker.
I was with a guy, and he was playing with my titties
till he touched me down there.
He felt it, and he seen it, and he like totally flipped out.
He said, you fucking faggot.
You're a freak.
You're a victim of AIDS,
and you're trying to give me AIDS.
What are you, crazy?
You're a homo.
I should kill you.
And like, I was really terrified,
so I just jumped out the window.
During the filming of Paris is Burning,
Venus was choked to death, presumably by a client.
Her body was discovered four days later under a hotel bed.
Trans women, in my country,
almost entirely trans women of color,
are murdered at a disgracefully high rate,
reaching a record of 29 deaths in 2017.
The men who murder trans women often claim
they were provoked to violence
by alleged deception of their victims.
This is what's called the trans panic defense
when legally invoked,
as in the 2004 trial of the killers
of the teenage trans girl, Gwen Araujo.
One of the killers, who had sex with Gwen
before learning she was trans,
cried, I can't be fucking gay,
before beating her to death.
Men are often willing to side with these killers,
saying that if trans women don't want to get murdered,
then they shouldn't trick men.
But what you have to understand is,
first, men usually do know when they're having sex
with a trans woman.
Like, if you have a dick,
it's pretty hard, actually, to have sex with someone
and have them not notice it.
And second, a lot of men view trans women's entire existence
as itself a kind of trickery.
A black trans woman named Elan Nettles
was murdered in Harlem in 2013
by a man whose friends had mocked him for flirting with her.
All she did to provoke him
was walk down the street with two friends.
The common thread here is not deception
on the part of the victims,
but rather the drive of the killers to protect
their social standing as masculine and straight.
But being perceived as a kind of fraudulent lure
is something that many trans women across class and race
experience some version of,
because men view femininity itself as a kind of enticement,
as the orchidaceous invitation to a proboscis.
I was just reading a Twitter thread by a trans woman
who was attacked recently by a man at a bar
who started flirting with her
until he realized she was trans and then punched her.
Like, what was she supposed to do
to stop that from happening?
Just stay at home?
For trans women, fears about men retaliating against us
for existing actually limit our freedom.
There's bars I won't go into
because I don't trust the clientele to side with me
if some shit like that goes down.
And I've had little scares.
I was in the back of an Uber once
and the driver comes on a little flirty, you know,
what's your name?
Are you a student?
And I'm thinking, wow,
he thinks I'm young enough to be a student.
But at some point he goes silent
and suddenly I'm getting a very icy glare
in the rear view mirror.
Like, fucking clocked.
And for a second I'm like, fuck,
I'm gonna die in the back of this car.
And of course I didn't die.
The rest of the ride was quiet, but it was fine.
I mean, I'm gonna be fine
because white middle-class transsexuals
don't get murdered in this country.
The murder issue exists at a specific intersection
of gender, class, and race.
And it's really not my oppression to claim.
You know, I sometimes hear white, bougie, middle-class,
computer programmer trans women be like,
we're getting murdered in the streets.
Who's we?
It's not white middle-class trans women.
So the trans panic murder issue is really not my lane.
It exists at this intersection of masculinity and race.
And it's really not a conversation
that should be led by a white woman,
especially when there's so, so, so many things
to critique about white masculinity.
Let's talk about some now.
Three, taking offense.
Okay, back to traps.
Now this is my lane.
I'm not sure anything's ever been more my lane.
Ah, the exquisite pleasure of being
entitled to the soapbox.
So boys, I've showed you how trans women's freedom
is abridged by our need to navigate around men
who view our gender presentation,
in fact, our very existence, as a kind of trap.
I think it should therefore be pretty clear
why trans women are not the biggest fans
of you using that word for us,
or for Fudanari, or cross-dressers, or whatever.
I mean, to be honest, if someone calls me a trap,
my response is more like, wow,
a transphobe thought I looked like a woman.
But that's because I'm so pathetic,
I have to go dumpster diving for validation.
But the rest of the trans women out there,
the ones with dignity and self-respect,
you should definitely not call them traps.
Of course, some trans women will overstate the case
and say the word trap is literally getting trans women killed,
which, I can't find any examples of the word trap
being connected to a murder,
but why don't we stop using the word before someone dies?
Because what you're doing when you call trans women traps
is you're showing that you think of us
the exact same way as the men
who try to justify attacking us.
When a man kills a trans woman,
literally the argument he trots out in court
is that he was trapped.
And that's what you're reminding us of
when you use that word.
And that's why trans women are getting triggered over it.
You know, sometimes people have good reasons
for being triggered by things,
and this is one of those times.
So, if I were a different kind of creator,
I could really end this video now.
I think I've made a pretty convincing case
that trans women are justifiably offended by the word trap.
But if I leave it at that, and this is for you, Twitter,
this is why I'm making this video.
If I simply argue that are traps gay is offensive,
then here's what happens.
First, a lot of people simply don't give a shit.
In fact, me telling them it's offensive
only makes them wanna say it more,
because they feel on a deep level
that they are by nature superior to trans people.
So an uppity telling them what words
they're allowed to say completely enrages them.
So they'll comment, traps are gay, lol,
just to reaffirm their superiority over me
and that I have no power or influence over them.
And there's really nothing I can do about those,
trans people.
But another group of people,
the socially progressive liberals,
they'll say, okay, so since you're offended by it,
I won't say the word trap anymore.
And they'll be super woke about it,
and they'll post Twitter call-outs
canceling anyone who uses the word trap,
and they'll be very respectful and compassionate
toward trans people in public,
so long as it makes them look good
to indulge and pity this tragic third-world country
of a gender minority.
But then they'll go home at night,
and in that twilight between consciousness and sleep,
their inner voice will whisper, but are traps gay?
And then, years later,
when their son brings home a transgender girlfriend,
we'll suddenly watch all that shallow wokeness vanish
like so much politically correct vapor.
Real acceptance has to be built on real understanding.
So it's not enough for me to argue
that are traps gay is offensive.
I also have to argue whether traps are gay.
So are traps gay?
Let's watch this.
Watch an instructional video to learn more.
Four, the philosopher.
Hello, boys.
It is I, the half-queen, points.
After 30 days and 30 nights,
the philosopher descended from the mountain
on top and to the gathered villagers thus spake.
Are traps gay, said he,
to whom the half-queen thus replied.
Hmm, let's see.
Let me think about it.
Oh.
I'm gonna stop saying trap now
because it's not a good word, as has been explained.
In fact, it's really best to treat it like a slur.
So what we're really asking here is if a man is attracted to
or has sex with a trans woman, is that gay?
Well, the simple answer is no, because trans women are,
and a man having sex with a woman is,
let's see here, according to the experts I've consulted,
it is not in fact gay.
But that's not the most persuasive answer
because in order to find it convincing,
you already have to believe that trans women are women.
And unfortunately, if you ask the average person about this,
what they say is something like,
sure, I think trans women are women,
but they shouldn't expect men to wanna date them
unless they're into that sort of thing.
Oh, and what sort of thing is that?
Usually when a man tells you he's dating a woman
and you say, oh, what's she like?
And he says, she's from Cincinnati,
your response is not, oh, David,
I didn't realize you were into that sort of thing.
In other words, these people tell you trans women are women,
but, and then they say something that shows
they don't really think trans women are women at all.
So since test audiences have proven shaky on that point,
it would basically be circular reasoning for me
to try to argue that attraction to trans women isn't gay
because trans women are women,
since the womanhood of trans women
is precisely the point that's being disputed.
So maybe the observational approach is better.
The facts are indisputable.
Many heterosexual men are attracted to trans women
and comparatively few gay men are.
Now to trans women, this is just an obvious fact
about our everyday experience in the world.
We know who's attracted to us and who isn't.
So to us,
this completely unnecessary debate is as impractical
as the question of whether the sun will rise tomorrow.
Sure, philosophers can say,
but how do we know the sun will rise tomorrow?
To which the correct response is shut the fuck up, nerd.
Stop playing 3D chess against your own brain
and find a real thing to worry about.
It's just a basic fact of experience
that the sun rises every morning.
And to trans women, it's a basic fact of experience
that the people who are attracted to us
are people who are attracted to women.
Of the cis men I've been with
since I started my transition,
all identify as straight
and all had only ever been with cis women
until this trend came along.
Am I really so powerful as a seductress
that lifetime heterosexuals are turning gay
over these tiny tits?
Let's not get cocky.
I mean, if a man is attracted to women and not to men
and he perceives me as a woman
and is attracted to me as a woman
and he sleeps with me
and then he continues being attracted to women
and not to men,
in what world is that anything but a straight man?
What wild maze of reasoning do you have
to invent to argue that this man is really gay?
Well, we all know exactly how this maze of reasoning goes,
beginning with the obvious.
What about the penis?
Ah, yes, the penis.
Look, baby, we'll get to the penis.
Don't you worry about that.
But first, I should remind everyone
that a lot of trans women do in fact have vaginas
because they got five.
The surgery.
In fact, I've been thinking of signing up
for a vagina myself,
but the thing is I make too much money for Medicaid now,
so I have to form an LLC,
become my own employer so I can give myself health benefits,
and ugh, it's so much paperwork.
You have to become an unincorporated legal entity
in this country just to get a .
Of course, transphobic radical feminists will say
it's not a real vagina, just a fuckhole,
because a real vagina is a sacred passage.
And that's fine by me.
What am I gonna do with a sacred passage anyway?
Get fingered by the Pope?
Pass.
Straight men don't get hung up on this.
I guarantee you no straight man has ever thought
of a vagina as a sacred passage.
They're either grossed out by it
or they're trying to climb inside.
What I'm trying to say is in the past,
I've been a little uncertain about getting a vagina
because my genital dysphoria isn't that bad.
And besides, chicks with dicks are very in right now,
very 2019, very trending.
And being a dick girl,
it's kind of like being a legendary Pokemon, you know?
People take interest, people pay attention to you,
and isn't that what we all want?
But unfashionable though it is,
I do think I want the surgery because,
well, guys, can I confess something kind of dark to you?
I have this really, really, really, really, really,
really fucked up fetish
where I want a boy to put his penis in my vagina.
Crazy, right?
I mean, I like anal,
but the gross thing about anal is you have to eat well.
Ew, I don't want to eat well.
I want to shove garbage into my mouth hole and get dicked.
Is that a crime?
It is kind of a scary surgery though.
Like what if my vagina sucks?
I'm afraid I have some bad news.
The tests are back and are showing that
in the medical terminology, your vagina does indeed suck.
The point is the easy sell version of the argument I'm making
is that there's nothing homosexual about a man's attraction
to a trans woman who's been on hormones a couple years.
She has female skin, she smells like a woman,
she has breasts, she's giving hair, body, face,
she's post-op and has a vagina.
Now even in this situation, people will still say
it's gay because of the chromosomes.
But look, human beings have five senses
and none of them can detect chromosomes.
Sexual attraction is not based
on some chromosomal metaphysics of gender.
It's based on perception.
And if you're a man and you perceive someone as a woman
and you're attracted to her
as a woman, then you are having a heterosexual moment,
my dude.
Congratulations, you're a breeder.
Now the argument people make is, okay, fine.
It's straight if you mistake her for a biological woman.
But if you know she's a man and you're still attracted,
then it's gay.
So look, if you believe that trans women are men,
then that belief might interfere with your perceptions
and it might change the relationship
between your perceptions and your sexual response.
But more likely is that you still will feel attraction
to the trans woman.
Only if you value your identity as a straight man,
you'll feel ashamed of your attraction
and you'll try to fight and deny it.
And you'll probably end up treating trans women
like absolute garbage.
Now, if I wanted to make the SJW 101 type response here,
I would say trans women are women
because they identify as women.
And so every heterosexual man who's experiencing attraction
to a trans woman is necessarily experiencing
heterosexual attraction because of the way
the person he's attracted to identifies.
But that's just replacing the black and white male and female
with the black and white thinking of a biology dogma
with the black and white thinking of an identity dogma.
But human sexuality is not black and white.
It's not even shades of gray.
It's a multicolor acid trip.
It's centaur Donna Summer charging at you
with a spanking paddle.
So sexual attraction is not based on chromosomes,
but it's not usually based on psychological identity either.
Most of the time, initial attraction anyway
is based on what I'd call presentation,
how you look and act.
And I think that's especially true of men.
They get turned on by that initial visual pull,
pop.
They see, they conquer, they come.
I mean, you have to admire the simplicity of it.
Sometimes I wish I were a man.
So look, if what you want is a woman who pops,
then rest assured there are plenty of trans women who pop.
Maybe you don't think I pop,
but you'd be hard pressed to argue
that any number of trans models and actresses
don't pop as much as any cis woman pops.
So the pop is undeniable.
No one's questioning the pop.
In fact, without the pop,
it never would have occurred to men
to call trans women traps
because they wouldn't be trapped
if they weren't attracted in the first place.
But a lot of men seem to think that the pop,
the visual presentation of a trans woman,
is some kind of illusion or facade
that at some point will be dropped,
revealing that our womanhood is a sham
and that we're really men.
Now, here's a big difference
between dating a trans woman and dating a drag queen.
If you date a cis drag queen,
at some point, you're getting a man, honey,
as explained by the only good YouTuber, Jasmine Masters.
I don't wanna date nobody who wanna date me like this
because this comes off,
and you're not doing nothing with this.
But if you date me, there's no de-dragging.
There's no moment where I become a man.
Baby, what you see is what you got.
At least on this side.
This is my natural side,
and this is my biological side.
When we're discussing people who are trans,
we immediately say in the first paragraph trans woman
and then refer to them by their biological pronoun
because biology is the nature of the pronoun, so.
Everyone's always hating on trans women
for being stereotypically feminine,
so why do you think that in the bedroom
we'd be any other way?
Part of it is that people are really,
really ignorant about hormone replacement therapy
and what it does for trans women.
It feminizes our skin, our smell,
our body fat distribution.
It makes us grow breasts.
That's right, these are my very real,
very biological titties.
I mean, I'm wearing a push-up bra,
but at least there's something to push up now.
Here, I'll show you.
I mean, they're small,
but it's not by any measure a male chest,
and what I have is very real,
very biological, and very female.
You people think everything to do with trans women is fake,
it's fake boobs, fake hair,
but that's prejudice more than observation.
Like, I've noticed that whether or not
I actually wear a wig in a video
has exactly zero effect on how many people comment
to call me a man in a wig,
so I may as well just wear wigs,
and I may as well get my boobs done, too,
since people are gonna call them fake either way,
but for what it's worth, this is my real hair,
at least on this half, and these are my real boobs,
and if I bring home a gentleman or a lady,
all that stays on in bed,
and it's there when I wake up in the morning,
but what about the penis?
All right!
Look, if the penis is feminine, how is that gay?
I rest my case.
Roll credits.
You can't make me lose.
Six, the feminine penis.
Look, some guys want the Ts and the D,
and that's the T.
Now, a lot of people assume that the involvement of a dick,
even a lady dick, makes any sexual interaction
with a man gay, but isn't male homosexuality
usually understood as attraction to men,
and not merely to,
penises, wherever they may arise?
I think there probably are some gay men
who really just like dick, and I'm not judging.
I'm not here to attack anyone's preferences,
but being a straight man,
I don't really think that's best understood
as a man attracted to vaginas.
You call women pussy, but then you're always like,
ew, period.
I'm a straight man.
I'm not used to putting a towel down when I fuck.
I don't know how to use a condom
because I expect cis women to be on birth control
and do everything for me,
and then you have straight incels online calling libies,
and then you have straight incels online calling libies,
and then you have straight incels online calling libies,
and then you have straight incels online calling libies,
and generally putting on a show of vaginal disgust.
I mean, if you're gonna date cis women
or post-op trans women,
I think you owe it to them
to be a little more vagina positive.
Because even though straight men are like,
ew, dicks, that's gay,
you guys also kind of love dicks.
You're always drawing them.
Your buildings look like dicks.
Your porn all has dicks in it.
So what about dicks on chicks?
Well, men like chicks and men like dicks,
so what's the problem, officer?
I think the booming popularity of T-girl porn
speaks for itself.
On PornHub,
The shemale category contains more videos
than other such popular categories
as rough sex, orgy, and webcam,
and it's mostly straight men who watch it.
When adultempire.com moved their T-Girl content
from their gay site to their straight site,
views increased 50%.
In 2016, the same year North Carolina passed
a transphobic and discriminatory bathroom bill,
the adult site Game Link's top-selling titles
in North Carolina were My Transsexual Teacher,
Shemale Shenanigans, and Joey Silvera's Transvisions 6.
A lot of straight men first find out
about trans women through porn,
which isn't great since most T-Girl porn
is not transpositive and uses dehumanizing slurs
like shemale and tranny,
which is how you end up living in a country
full of people who will jerk off to you
but won't give you rights.
So to a lot of men, that's the representation we have.
Shemales, trannies, and Caitlyn Jenner.
Great, I love that for us.
Now there probably are some men
who will always be put off by a woman's having a dick,
and you know what?
That's fine.
Not every man can be a poet, a visionary, a sage.
You like what you like.
I'm not here to police anyone's desires.
In fact, quite the opposite.
I'm here to liberate men of sophisticated taste
from society's cruel and unjust prejudice
against their T-Girl-loving ways.
But liberation begins with understanding.
So who are the men who love trans girls?
Well, according to trans women I've talked to
in my own personal experience,
the men who date us can be
divided into three general groups.
Group one are men who, to be honest,
are actually kind of put off by the dick,
but they're so attracted to the woman it's attached to
that they're willing to work around it
or wait for it to grow on them.
Group two are men who are attracted to trans women
including their penises,
but they don't specifically fetishize the penis,
so they wouldn't mind if their trans lover
had genital reassignment and got a vagina.
And then group three are men
who specifically fetishize chicks with dicks,
and often want to worship the penis or be penetrated by it.
Now group three are what the trans community calls chasers.
Dating chasers is generally a bad idea
because their attraction to us
is based around fetishizing our genitals,
which is often the part of us
that we're most uncomfortable with.
So if you're a T-Girl who likes men,
group two is really Goldilocks perfection
unless you really like topping or you've had the surgery.
Now I should say that group two
does include some bisexual men,
and bisexual people of either gender
can be great partners if you're trans.
You like girls, you like dick.
I'm a girl with a dick.
Let's make this happen.
That said, if someone views that part of me as male
and wants me to do with it what men do with it,
then pass, not interested.
Now, you might be wondering,
what is this post-modern neo-Marxist SJW insanity?
How could I view it as anything other than a male part?
It's a fucking penis!
Well, I'm glad you asked.
I always jump at the opportunity to enlighten someone
about the ecstasies of the feminine penis.
You see, there are three factors that make a penis feminine.
Usage and physiology.
So first, context.
Picture in your mind's eye a feminine woman.
Now, picture her with a penis.
That's not a man's penis, that's a woman's penis.
It's feminine because of the context that it's in.
Second, usage.
A lesson in penis etiquette.
A gentleman need not be coy about his penis.
He may flaunt, he may brandish, he may tug,
he may penetrate, he may order you to get on your knees
like a good girl and .
As it is a truth universally acknowledged
that a lady of good breeding never brandishes her penis.
When she rises from the bath,
she covers it gracefully with a demure hand,
and when not in use, she keeps it carefully stowed away.
Here's how to tuck your penis like a lady.
The first step is to put on a set of vicious stiletto claws.
This doesn't make things any easier,
but it does build character.
Next, you want to take not one, but two, two, three, four,
but two pairs of cotton-lined, polyspandex,
bikini-cut panties, at least one size too small,
and pull them most of the way up your legs.
Now, there's just no way to put this delicately, my dears.
You're gonna take your claw,
and you're gonna grab your scrotum,
and you're gonna yank that bubble gum
back into your peach crease.
Now hold it back with one hand,
and with your other hand, push your penis back,
pressing those little legs up into your pelvis.
Bring your thighs together to hold everything in place,
and then pull your panties up.
Front first, then back, run your hand over it
to make sure nothing's seeping out the sides,
and then voila, it's like it was never there.
For more information, you can purchase my book,
Tuck Your Penis, with a new foreword
by Dr. Jordan B. Peterson.
I've now explained both the context
and the usage of the feminine penis,
so let us now turn to physiology.
Most people don't realize that taking feminizing hormones
actually changes the anatomy and functionality
of the genitals, shrinking everything
down and softening everything up.
That means changes to a little thing
not a lot of people are talking about,
but something I've been trying to raise awareness of,
you know, start a conversation, open a dialogue,
really get people talking about seven, the mouth feel.
Oh hi, it's me, Natalie Nguyen, your tasting specialist.
I have tasted everything.
Both the trans and the oral penis.
And I've been able to discover that this is almost
the same thing as the royal flush of oral sex.
Girl dick, boy dick, girl pussy,
and let us not forget about the masculine clitoris.
But today, we amuse the palate with the feminine penis.
Now, with respect to flavor, the feminine penis
has more sweetness than the masculine penis
and fewer truffle notes, while retaining the fundamental dick, umami.
To mouthfeel, the feminine penis is of course softer and smoother than the masculine penis
and does not become as turgid.
And as for the cum taste, well, it is a known fact that girl cum is clear, liquid, and tastes
of saline, whereas boy cum is milky, viscous, and more acidic.
It is therefore the consensus among sommeliers that sucking a female penis is not gay.
Cheers!
8. Being straight is pretty gay
So I've been trying to clear up some misconceptions about sex with trans women, but ultimately,
you kinda just need to try it yourself to fully, viscerally understand why sex with
a trans woman is sex with a woman.
Now, we must always be wary of being overly simplistic in our thinking.
Sexuality is complicated.
And while it's undeniable,
that many straight men are attracted to trans women, the messy reality is that a lot of
straight men are also attracted to male cross-dressers.
Before I transitioned, I was a cross-dresser, and I didn't present super womanly either,
like fully Dr. Frankenfurter.
And that's why I'm so iconic.
I showed the world that in two years, you can transition from literally Dr. Frankenfurter
to a very real, very biological drag queen.
But even when I was that baritone-voiced transvestite, I still got sex with a woman.
I still got semi-regular messages from men being like,
So, I'm a straight man, but I'm like, really attracted to you when you dress as a woman
and it's really making me question my sexuality.
Now, I could flatter myself with some kind of retcon and be like, well maybe those men
just picked up on my inherently womanly, female energy essence that I've always had since
I was born a female, biological soul trapped in the body of a cross-dressing baby.
But let's be real.
There are straight men who fuck cross-dressers.
There are straight men who fuck cross-dressers.
There are straight men who fuck drag queens.
There are straight-identifying men who fuck other straight-identifying men.
What is going on here?
Straight men, what is your deal?
Who are you?
What is your life?
How did you become straight?
Did they recruit you?
Were you groomed?
I blame the parents.
Let's go back to the game you guys like to play, the one I call, Is This Gay?
The commonly understood definition of homosexual acts is that they're sex acts between people
of the same gender.
But I've heard men argue that if a woman puts on a strap-on and pegs a guy, then that's gay.
Or that it's gay if a man enjoys a woman touching his nipples.
To be clear, we're talking about one man and one woman, Eve sucking Adam's nipples, and
according to these men, it's totally gay.
What that shows is that the idea of heterosexuality includes much more than just sex between a
man and a woman.
It actually encompasses a complex series of rituals that must be performed by people who
are playing the correct roles.
So if a man deviates from his assigned part in the approved bedroom activities, then according
to this very fragile view of heterosexuality,
he ceases to be straight.
Even a man's own relationship with his body is policed by these narrow confines.
For instance, some men won't even wash their own assholes for fear that some involuntary
twinge of anal pleasure might transform them irrevocably into raving homos.
I mean to be fair, before I washed my asshole, I was a quarterback.
Now I'm a cheerleader.
B-I-C-T-R-O, why don't tell the coach I was a guy?
This obsession with the details of what sex is allowed and what prohibited reminds me
of what psychologist Jonathan Haidt calls an ethics of purity and degradation.
Basically it's a style of moral thinking that treats the body like a temple that must
be protected from desecration, which means you have to obey laws about how you can fuck
and what you can eat, so for example religious dietary laws.
I think this hyper-masculine hetero-man code is basically an ethics of purity, a kind of
kosher law governing straightness, and the is this gay game is its theology.
Now this whole line of thinking has been reducing over the years.
I'm not sure if it's true or not.
It was introduced to absurdity pretty effectively by, of all people, Count Dankula.
If you class yourself as a straight man, and you're masturbating, that means that you're
touching a dick, and that's gay.
Well memed my lord, well memed.
The pinnacle of the whole conversation is reached when Dankula concludes that since a woman inherits
half her DNA from her father, she's technically half a man, and therefore having sex with a
woman is pretty gay.
Obviously this is shit-posting, but it's logically just as good an argument as traps
are gay because chromosomes.
So I think what we have here is a very bad theory about what it is to be gay.
So what is being gay?
Socrates.
Hmm.
On second thought, I don't know her.
9.
Being gay is good actually.
Sometimes when you've been arguing about something for more than half an hour, it's
good to take a step back and ask yourself, why are we even asking this question in the
first place?
Why does it even matter whether attraction to trans women is gay or straight?
It seems like the most pressing reason is that a lot of men equate straightness with
manhood, and they defend their manhood at all costs.
Now men, this might be difficult to hear, and maybe you don't want to hear it from me,
but this idea of manhood is hurting you, and it's hurting cis women, and it's hurting trans
women, and it's hurting gay people.
For one thing, it makes you really really bad at sex.
Who wants to sleep with a guy who is so hung up on homophobic paranoia that he can't even
have sex?
He can't even enjoy his own body.
Having your nipples sucked does not make you gay.
Being pegged does not make you gay.
Sucking another man's dick, just to try it, does not make you gay.
And why?
Because being gay is a socially constructed identity defined as a type of person who is
persistently attracted to people of the same gender.
If you're persistently attracted to people of the same gender, and you identify with
the word gay, then you're gay.
If not, then you're not.
And nothing you can do will change that.
9.
Being Gay
So that's one reason to stop worrying about this, and reason two is that being gay is
good actually.
I mean, why would you be worried about this if you didn't think being gay was bad?
Now, I don't identify as gay except in some pan-LGBT cultural sense.
We the gays.
But as a queer person, I can't help but be a little bit wounded by the fact that straight
men are so obsessed with proving that they aren't like us.
But that is not a wound I am going to dwell on.
Because life is much too short for that.
I don't want to waste any more time processing your homophobic baggage.
Are traps gay?
Baby, who cares?
Just do it feels good.
That's the simple answer, but the truth is that when people say, traps are gay but there's
nothing wrong with being gay, that is nothing but a sneaky attempt to call trans women men
and to reinforce the stigma against dating us among the group of people who are in fact
most attracted to us.
Because it is mostly straight men and not gay men who like us.
And the gay stigma is the reason why only a small fraction of the men who are attracted
to us are willing to openly date us.
And the stigma is very real.
A straight man who dates a trans woman takes on some of the burden of queerness.
Men who date us can be mocked by other men, they can be rejected by their families, they
experience, in short, a sample of the difficulty all queer people face.
But a real man, in my opinion, is not the kind of man who lets other people's prejudices
control his life.
A real man does not act like an insecure little boy afraid of what people will say about him.
A real man owns what he likes and is not ashamed of the women he loves.
And so, my edgy little boys, by that measure, I may be a woman, but I'm still more of a
man than you.
10.
I have feelings too.
Well, I guess today we learned that Are Traps Gay? is not a debate worth winning, because
just by participating, we're accepting the validity of an insincere question and the
bigoted assumptions it relies on.
Now, some harsh words have been said about men tonight, and I think that harshness is
deserved.
Hashtag not all gamers.
But also, this video completely centers men's feelings.
And if you want to know more, click here.
And I have feelings too, goddammit.
And some of those feelings are not all that different from the anxieties men have.
Let me explain.
Let me explain.
So I identify my sexuality as queer and poly, which in my case is politically correct terminology
for confused slutbag.
Before I transitioned, I dated women, and I still do have lesbicious and lesbinaical
feelings.
But early in my transition, I encountered a lot of TERF shit, and it really scared me
off dating cis lesbians.
Which I never did.
Which I never have.
Even before I transitioned, the question, do I want to fuck men, had been in the back
of my head for a long time.
But about a year ago, I was like, I want to fuck men.
I want to fuck men.
But when I first started messing around with men, I mean I was terrified.
Because men are scary.
And in my early transition, I'd only dated bisexual trans people and enbies.
And as an aside, some of those experiences were really revelatory.
A person with a vagina can be fully a man in bed.
That teaches you something about gender.
It might be hard to believe.
It might be hard to learn otherwise.
And loving a trans woman, like, I still sometimes do struggle to fully believe that I'm a real
woman.
But to experience another trans woman, not just as a woman, but as like the radiant model
of womanhood, that's an experience that's meant a lot to me.
And if you're attracted to women, and that's an experience you haven't had, you're missing
out.
But what I was going to say is bisexual trans and non-binary people are a pretty safe group
of people to date when you're early in transition.
Because they're pretty chill about anatomy.
And presentation.
But if you're going to date cishet men, you need to be serving women.
And I guess you don't need to, but it doesn't hurt.
And I did wonder if I was woman enough for it.
So the first couple of times I was so afraid, I was like, when I take my clothes off, is
he going to think I'm a man?
Basically my anxiety was, are traps gay?
But what I ended up doing is just working up to things gradually.
And of course, you start by sucking dick.
That's very safe, because like, what red blooded man is going to turn down a t-girl blowjob?
And it doesn't involve my dick.
It's not my dick.
It's not my junk in any way.
But then I got a little bolder, and I got with a guy who like, years before I transitioned,
we'd been guy friends.
So to then have a sexual experience where it was very much between a man and a woman,
like, that shit is super hot.
Recently I took what seemed like the biggest risk, and I let a straight guy go down on
me, and I was so nervous about that, because like, what if he thinks I'm a man?
What if he's repulsed?
Can you feel like a woman while your dick is being sucked?
The answer is yes.
It was so hot.
I loved it.
He loved it.
And just knowing that he'd never done that before, but I would just say it's special.
Ten out of ten.
And you know what he told me after?
He told me he liked the mouth feel.
Everyone's talking about it now, bitches.
So look, I really don't want to shame men for being anxious about dating trans women,
because I mean, I was anxious too, in the other direction.
But I do want to shame men for being anxious about dating trans women, because I mean,
I was anxious too, in the other direction.
I do want to shame men for treating trans women like they're dirty little secrets.
And I do want to shame men for dehumanizing us and voting away our rights by day, while
jerking off to shemale porn by night.
And I do want to shame men for refusing to date us because they're not fucking strong
enough to shoulder one hundredth of the burden of stigma that every trans woman carries every
moment of every day.
And I do want to shame men for attacking their trans girlfriends because they couldn't
stand being treated like a gay man for five minutes.
That is pathetic.
If you're so worried about proving you're a man, why don't you start by standing up
for the women you love, you chicken shit cowards.
So look, what I'm asking for is so basic.
Don't call human beings traps.
If you're attracted to trans women, don't be ashamed of it.
It's okay, you can date us.
We're more than just jack off material.
If you aren't attracted to trans women, respect the people who are.
If you do date a trans woman, treat her like a princess, because god knows she's been
through enough shit.
And finally, protect her.
Protect trans women of color at all costs.
All I want here is basic human decency.
Is that really too much to ask?
Well, this is the internet, so yes, yes it is.
God damn it.
Well, that was long.
I suppose the lesson is, as Sigmund Freud said,
sometimes a cigar is just a beautiful woman's penis.
You must think that you are so unique, trying to educate all the free, blissfully,
unaware of how crude, hurt before, bigoted, and plain rude.
But you're not.
You're not.
You're not.
Oh my god, think about all the things that you have said to us.
All the things that you say come up everyday.
There is one thing that I cannot stand.
And it's you dear, head in the sand.
It's not really ignorance of mine.
It's the willful bigot's avocado.
Oh.
There is one thing that I cannot stand
And it's you, dear, head in the sand
There's no release from ignorance in my mind
Just the willful bigots who find us
Don't let them define us
