Hey everyone, I am here with my promised Q&A, and I got a bunch of questions on Curious Cat,
and I'm gonna do my best to answer them right now. The first question. After your brilliant
video on Dave Rubin, thank you, there have been a number of other great video analyses covering
other aspects of why he and his show are so flawed and dishonest. Now that Rubin's been
covered so well, do you think Joe Rogan should be next to receive this treatment?
The Cerst did a video on his show being the start of an alt-right pipeline, but otherwise
there's been very little from leftist YouTube criticizing him and his show directly, mostly
just of individual guests on it. The real difficulty with covering Joe Rogan is that he has
so much content. It would take literally thousands of hours of listening to his stuff to get a sense
of what his show is about and how he's evolved and changed over the years. Personally, I don't have
the time to invest in this. If I could come up with an angle to tackle this, I would be interested
in doing that, but until I come up with that angle, which would mean a more focused and narrower
domain when it comes to the Joe Rogan Experience podcast, sadly I'll have to pass on this for now,
but who knows what the future will bring, and if I get that right angle, I'll go for it.
Next question. Is municipal tap water in Canada drinkable? Yeah, generally speaking it is. In any
major city, you can drink the tap water and you'll be just fine. That's not always true if you live
on a reservation of some kind. This typically affects more remote areas of Canada, and I don't
know too much about this subject. The debate is generally framed as a mix of governmental
incompetence and corruption within the tribal system as the government's treatment of Indigenous
peoples in Canada has generally ranged from bad to awful. If you're in Toronto, Montreal, Vancouver,
whatever, you're gonna be fine. Next question. What are your thoughts on the state of educational
television in Canada? I live in Alberta and recently our CTV2 affiliate, originally an
education channel for the province, stopped airing their educational programming. I don't like the
sound of educational programming being taken away from anywhere. Honestly, this question I don't
have a very good answer for, so you'll have to excuse me. Instead of giving you a half an ass,
kind of like, sort of maybe this, I'm gonna have to do something you don't see enough of on YouTube
and just say, I don't know, I'm not knowledgeable about this, and I'd have to do some real research
and some real digging to give you an actual answer that has some semblance of knowledge or insight
into the situation. Shooting from the hip about a topic I know very little about is just something
I don't enjoy doing, and I think it's something people should do way less of, way, way less of
on YouTube. Next question. Will you remember us when you're famous? I don't think I'm ever gonna
be famous, and I kind of like that. There are a lot of good things that come with fame, usually
some sort of financial stability, a lot of opportunities to do exciting and new things,
and I'd rather have all of those perks and none of the downsides. Fame isn't really a goal with this,
but if I do become famous, of course, I will remember you, anonymous question asker. How could
I forget? Opinion of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Remember what I said about not
commenting on things I don't know anything about? I know nothing about this. The only
sentiment I could possibly offer here is that I hope this Commonwealth does right by the people
of Poland and Lithuania. I'm gonna not talk about it, otherwise I'm gonna be like Dave Rubin with
his commentary on Bolsonaro and his getting rid of the SJW stuff. No one needs that. No one needs
that on YouTube. Next question. Why are my YouTube recommends so terrible? I'm guessing you watched
a single video by, I don't know, Sargon of Akkad? Maybe you watched a quartering video? That
usually kills your recommendations and suddenly you're down this grotesque anti-SJW rabbit hole.
It's the YouTube algorithm. It's pretty garbage. I have a separate YouTube account I use for my
research, so it's got the worst recommendations, which helps when I'm researching a video, but
whenever I'm watching my own stuff I log into a different account. Why would I waste time
logging into an account that's just going to give me garbage videos? I'm glad people stopped
making those Captain Marvel videos because my recommendations for about two weeks after I made
that video about Get Woke Go Broke being a lie was just angry stupid. Oh Captain Marvel's gonna
fail videos and by the way, quick callback to that video. How much money did that make on its
opening weekend again? Oh yeah, like nearly half a billion dollars. So Get Woke Go Broke my ass.
I usually don't take a victory lap, but damn that one felt good. Next question. Dear Jose,
besides running a YouTube channel and correcting skeptics, what other passions do you have?
Favorite subjects in academia? Talents? Hobbies? Thank you for making this content and congratulations
for 2,500 subscribers. Thank you for the congratulations and that's four questions,
but since you're so nice I'm gonna answer them all. Other passions. I'm a pretty avid reader. I
read a lot of different types of fiction. I'm a big lover of the arts. I love creative writing.
I have not done nearly enough of it recently. I did a little bit today. It felt good, although
what I created was crap, but that's the creative process. I was trying to teach myself to draw for
a while. That didn't go so well, but I can still I can make decent things. I also love traveling.
I've been to quite a few places now. Currently my goal is to see every continent on the planet
except for Antarctica because of the ecological impact of tourism on that continent. Favorite
subjects in academia? Probably English literature. I studied it in university and adored it. I also
have a major in psychology, which while great, isn't quite as fun as English literature to be
honest. Talents. But I used to sing. I played a few instruments, never any good. Maybe writing,
I guess. That's kind of a talent. Hobbies. I do play a few video games, although not nearly as much
as I used to. Having a boring life, that's my hobby. Next question. What's your opinion on the
debate Nazis or don't debate Nazis debate? I think what I do on this channel is debate. And I mean
debate in that I confront terrible ideas with my ideas, which are not so terrible. I might even call
some of them good. In this channel, I try to interrogate and really test terrible ideas that
includes ideas not only from Nazis, but very noxious people with shitty, fascistic, wrongheaded,
toxic ideologies. In that sense, I am already part of the debate. What people usually refer to as a
debate, particularly when they're challenging me to a debate in the comment section is if I'll
actually take something like that seriously, is they want to have some sort of live stream
confrontation where people will shout at each other while trying to trip them up with these
silly rhetorical games and pedantic gotcha moments where they're trying to score points
in some sort of absurd performance that's really more a mockery of debate and discourse. I would
join in with the knowledge that what I am doing is not actually debating someone. This is some sort
of weird performance that we're engaged in for an audience that is often under the delusion that
they're seeing ideas clash in some sort of real-time environment. That's not really how people figure
out what is or isn't true. If we're talking about academia, for instance, you'll see that in the
literature. That's where the ideas will really come into clash and you'll see real debate happen
because people will have time to research and think about their responses and provide evidence.
We're not really set up as human beings to be debating machines where you can just
plop down on a stage and rattle off a bunch of facts. That's why you see these fact-free debaters
thrive in that environment because you can't really match them one-on-one because they don't
use facts to begin with. So they're just debating from their gut using their opinions and feelings
as if these are somehow evidence for their arguments. They aren't. They're just using
debating tactics to win over an audience. Apart from leftist content, would you ever put your
fingers in different video essay pies? My next video is going to be very much a departure and
a different kind of video essay. It will be technically leftist content but it's going to
be very different. I don't want to spoil the surprise just yet but I hope people give it a
shot and I think people are going to hate it or love it and really those are the only two extremes
I'm interested in. As for the future, I have so many ideas and things I'd love to do but I'm not
ready to spill the beans on those just yet. Next question. Why is your voice so damn sexy?
I think that's a question you can answer better than I can. I don't think my voice is anything
terribly special to be honest. The reason it sounds a little bassy is because I actually turn
up the bass a little when I'm mixing my audio. I kind of like it and I guess you do too.
Next question. Do you enjoy watching cartoons or animes? Not nearly as much as I used to and
that's more a product of just having less free time as I get older and you don't get much time
for watching stuff sadly but I do have a couple of cartoons I enjoy. BoJack Horseman on Netflix
is great. My favorite show of all time, if we're only counting seasons 2 through 9,
could very well be The Simpsons. I used to watch a fair amount of anime and generally fallen off
of that as well but my favorite TV series of all time as a complete package because it did not dip
in quality like The Simpsons but it was good and pure and wonderful through its entire run.
That is Nana. I mentioned it in my comic skate video and I will absolutely mention it again here.
The anime was just so good it will shatter your heart and make you a better person for having
had that happen. Other all-time favorite anime are my favorite movie ever Princess Mononoke and
really anything by Studio Ghibli but Spirited Away and Howl's Moving Castle are two of my other
favorites. Cowboy Bebop is still one of my favorite shows of all time. I also loved Gundam
Seed, a show that is both over and underrated if that's possible. Before anyone asks I'm not
a huge fan of most other Gundam shows although I have watched quite a few.
What's your favorite meme of this year so far? I'm tempted to say the Fiji water girl was my
favorite but the one that made me laugh the hardest this year was the hallway pizza guy.
I'm gonna just play the video. Next question, are you optimistic about the future? Yes, I actually
am optimistic about the future. If I thought things were going badly and would continue to go badly
I'd probably give up so it's a practical optimism. While researching a topic that has nothing to do
with any of the videos I made I was learning more about millennial compensation and that increasingly
something millennials are finding rewarding in compensation for their employment is some sort of
positive social benefit. Instead of just asking for a higher salary they also enjoy compensation
that includes an employer that will donate money to a worthy cause or institute programs that give
back to the community. I think this is a signifier of the values of the younger generation coming up
and I really hope and believe we can hold on to these values in the future where we're not just
looking to make the most of our own lives in our world but improve the lives of everyone around us.
That's the sort of thing that makes me optimistic. Next question, how much can you lift?
So I only really use dumbbells and for those I'm currently at uh 22 and a half pounds for each
dumbbell which is okay I guess I don't know. I lift weights maybe twice a week. I'm not super
into it to be honest. I find other ways of staying fit. I compliment my weight lifting with a bit of
running some yoga and some calisthenics. Last question and it's a good one. Do the needs of the
many outweigh the needs of the few? Yes, yes they do. They also outweigh the needs of the one.
That's a Star Trek reference for everyone who doesn't know that moment in Star Trek where Spock
sacrifices himself to save everyone and it's pretty sad. I'm more a fan of Star Trek the next
generation but the original series still has its own charm and I kind of love the hokiness of it.
What a way to go out on a Star Trek reference. Thanks to everyone who submitted their questions
and if you realize you suddenly had a question for me and you wanted me to answer it but just
you didn't submit it you can still ask me a question just submit it on curiouscat. If you
love the work I'm doing consider donating to my Patreon. Those who donate five dollars or more
will even see their name in the credits for not the next video but the one after that. I kind of
explained it in the previous video if you want more details but if you're the sort of person
who loves seeing their name in credits this is your chance and if somehow this is the first
video of mine you've ever seen I've got plenty of other videos on this channel you can check out
and they will tell you what I'll tell you now. If you like any of my videos including this one you
can subscribe, like, comment. Also you can follow me on Twitter and thanks for watching.
