Spin-offs almost never work.
They usually miss the magic of their predecessor, run for half a season, and are quickly forgotten,
resigned to the dustbin of TV history.
Frasier was not just an exception, it was one of those rare sitcoms that went from spin-off
to its own full-fledged hit.
A classic of the 90s, Frasier ran for 11 seasons and was a critical darling, with 37 Emmy wins,
which as of 2022 was the third highest ever for a series and the highest for any sitcom.
Frasier was in some ways an unlikely success story.
As big a hit as Cheers was, being a Cheers spin-off wasn't a surefire recipe for success.
The first spin-off attempt, The Tortelles, lasted a mere 13 episodes before it was cancelled.
When Cheers went off the air, a poll conducted by Pew found that, of all the Cheers characters
who might get a spin-off, only 2% of fans wanted to see one starring Frasier.
Not the best of omens, but Frasier quickly went over any doubters by being a hit from
its very first episode.
Of course, the story behind how that show came to be started before that first title
card.
It's hard to explain Frasier without explaining all of Cheers, and luckily I've already done
that.
If you'd like to hear a detailed breakdown of that show, please check out my video on
Cheers.
For everyone else, here's a quick refresher.
Frasier Crane was introduced in season 3 of the series as a foil in the Sam-Diane will-they-won't-they
relationship.
Although the character was intended to make a quick exit, appearing as a temporary boyfriend
for Diane, Kelsey Grammer made such a strong impression on the show's producers that
they kept him around for the next eight seasons.
In that time, he was left at the altar by Diane, met and married, Lilith Sternan, had
a child named Frederick, revealed that he had been married once before in his younger
days, and eventually divorced Lilith, only to seemingly reconcile in the final season
of the show.
At the end of Cheers, Frasier was set to spend the rest of his days sitting in that bar in
Boston, listening to Cliff tell tall tales, watching Norm drink countless beers, and
inhaling dangerous levels of Sam Malone's many layers of cologne.
But a Frasier spin-off took the character in a new direction.
Let's briefly talk about Wings.
The series was created by David Angel, Peter Casey, and David Lee, all former writers on
Cheers.
It was through their production company, Grub Street Productions, that they approached Kelsey
Grammer about working on a new series.
They had a good relationship from their time on Cheers together, so much so that Frasier
even made a guest appearance on an episode of Wings.
Originally this new project wasn't going to be a Cheers-related spin-off at all, but
rather an original series starring Kelsey Grammer.
The idea they came up with was that of a wealthy mogul who was in a motorcycle accident and
then confined to his bedroom, running his entire empire from his bed.
The idea was rejected by NBC and Paramount, and it was firmly suggested that the new show
would be about Frasier Crane.
If Frasier was going to return, Kelsey Grammer insisted on the rest of the show being something
entirely new, so the character was packed up, moved to Seattle, and would start a new
life as a radio psychiatrist.
Frasier Crane would be played, of course, by Kelsey Grammer, the erudite, sophisticated
band returning to his hometown.
Although he had known Frasier for nine years on Cheers, in Seattle he would be far more
inclined to let his more cultured side show, with less time spent on bar stools and more
time spent in opera boxes.
He would also spend less time being married and more time trying to figure out how to
be a single man in his forties.
David Hyde Pierce was cast as Niles Crane, Frasier's younger brother.
Although the initial idea for the show never included a brother character, he was added
after assistant casting director Sheila Guthrie pointed out how much Pierce resembled a young
Kelsey Grammer, particularly in his first appearance on Cheers.
After the character was created, the role went directly to Pierce, who created exactly
what you would expect of Frasier's brother, prim, eccentric, and dripping with snobbery.
Martin Crane was played by John Mahoney.
The gruff former cop who finds himself suddenly living with Frasier after he becomes unable
to handle life on his own due to a gunshot wound he received a few years prior.
Martin was inspired by the real-life experience of series co-creator David Lee, who had been
helping take care of his in-form father at the time.
Mahoney was the first choice for the character, and much like Pierce, was offered the role
directly.
Jane Leves played Daphne Moon, Martin's physical therapist and live-in housekeeper
for Frasier and Martin.
Although initially there was some discussion on making her Latina, the producers eventually
made Daphne English, and Jane Leves, like Pierce and Mahoney before her, was pre-approved
for the role.
Daphne provides a quirkier side of Frasier's home life, occasionally dropping in strange
stories from her days back in Manchester, and having the odd psychic vision.
Roz Doyle, played by Perry Gilpin, is the hard-edged foil to the more genteel character
of Frasier.
She brings her frank way of speaking to bear in most scenes at the KACL radio station,
along with a very prolific dating life.
The only character whose actor wasn't pre-approved, at first Lisa Kudrow, was cast to be Roz.
Gilpin was brought in when things didn't work out with her, although Kudrow would find
her own success a year later when she was cast as Phoebe in the show Friends.
The final member of the cast was a lovable Jack Russell Terrier named Moose, who played
the role of Eddie, Martin's pet dog.
Moose played Eddie for the first six seasons, but in later seasons, with Moose getting
older, his son Enzo took up the family business and also played Eddie.
Although the principal cast was relatively small, Frasier made the most of them with
numerous episodes exploring the antics of the Korean men and the women who tolerated
them.
There were current characters who joined them, including Dan Butler as Bob Bulldog
Briscoe, Edward Hibbert as Gil Chesterton, and Tom McGowan as Kenny Daly.
Even though Frasier was a spin-off, there was such a strong desire for it to be its
own show that very few cameos came from Cheers regulars, with one exception, Bebe Neworth,
who would reprise her role as Lilith, in every season of Frasier.
Although the show had no theme song, its ending theme, tossed salad and scrambled eggs, sung
by grammar at his insistence, is one of TV's most memorable closers.
According to the series' composer, Bruce Miller, the lyrics weren't allowed to make
any reference to the subject matter of the show, including its title, and there has been
some speculation as to what the song even means.
Although the lyrics seem nonsensical, they actually do tell a story.
Hey baby, I hear the blues a-callin', tossed salad and scrambled eggs, refers to Frasier's
callers on his radio show.
The next part?
But maybe I seem a bit confused, maybe, but I got you pegged, refers to Frasier struggling
to understand his own life, but still being able to help.
But I don't know what to do with these tossed salad and scrambled eggs, the callin' again,
is a reference to an endless stream of people calling for help.
On September 16th, 1993, Frasier debuted and much of America was watching.
The premiere of Frasier was titled The Good Son, and was written by the show's creators,
David Angel, Peter Casey, and David Lee, and directed by long-standing Cheers director
James Burroughs.
It very quickly filled in the blanks as to what happened with Frasier following the end
of Cheers.
Six months ago, I was living in Boston.
My wife had left me, which was very painful, then she came back to me, which was excruciating.
Reflecting on this moment, writer David Isaacs said,
That got a big laugh.
Bigger than it should have.
I thought to myself, we're going to be okay.
Part of the premise is given to us right away, with Frasier hosting a radio show in Seattle,
and we are introduced to his brother Niles in a creative way.
Frasier made use of title cards to introduce scenes, so instead of having an awkward bit
of dialogue where the relationship between Frasier and Niles is acknowledged explicitly,
the title card simply reads,
The Brother.
These title cards became an iconic part of the Frasier style, often framing your expectations
for a scene with some important information, or providing a joke to add a bit more levity
into the scene.
In the cafe, Niles helpfully introduces the idea that Martin should move in with Frasier.
All right, I'll make up the spare bedroom.
Oh, you're a good son, Frasier.
Oh god, I am, aren't I?
Two cafe supremos?
Anything to eat?
No, I seem to have lost my appetite.
I'll have a large piece of cheesecake.
Martin is not thrilled with the arrangement.
We all know I am here.
Your old man can't be left alone for ten minutes without falling on his ass and Frasier got
stuck with me.
Isn't that right?
No, no!
No!
No!
I want you here.
They'll give us a chance to get reacquainted.
That implies we were acquainted at one point.
Martin brings one piece of furniture with him to complete Frasier's carefully decorated
apartment, his iconic chair.
After a suggestion from Niles, Frasier decides to hire some help, and we then meet Daphne.
You were a policeman, weren't you?
Yeah, how'd you know?
I must confess, I'm a bit psychic.
Martin instantly wants to hire her, partially, by suspect, to annoy Frasier.
The main conflict of this episode is between Frasier and Martin struggling to find a way
to live together.
Ever since you moved in here, it's been a snide comment about this, or a smart little
put-down about that.
Well, I've done my best to make a home here for you, and once, just once would have killed
you to say thank you!
One lousy thank you!
After the fight, Martin makes a gesture to Frasier the best way he can.
Yeah, I'm worried my son doesn't know that I really appreciate what he's done for me.
Why don't you tell him?
You know how it is with fathers and sons, you have trouble saying that stuff.
Well, if it helps, I suspect your son already knows how you feel.
Is that all?
Yeah, I guess that's it.
Thank you, Dr. Crane.
My pleasure, Martin.
Yeah, what I said, I said thank you!
Yes, I heard.
What makes this a great pilot is that it not only establishes the premise and interests
of the characters, but also sets up one of the primary plotlines for the first few seasons,
Frasier and Martin reconnecting after Frasier had spent 15 years away in Boston.
One thing abundantly clear is that this show will be set in the world of the upper class.
Frasier is obviously well off, and so is Niles, and while Martin and Daphne certainly aren't,
both of them will be living under Frasier's roof, reacting to the context he's created
for them, and Roz, while more akin to Daphne and Martin in class status, typically appears
in scenes at the radio station, the cafe, or Frasier's apartment in a supporting role.
When you look at the class backgrounds of the characters, this split between them matters
far less than the context they find themselves in.
Ultimately, this show is about Frasier's world.
Niles might be the best fit into it, but to an extent, all the other characters are trying
to fit into Frasier's world as well.
And this is all very ironic considering this whole episode is about Frasier fighting himself
in a new context.
It speaks to the power of perspective and how when a show focuses on one character,
it can very easily shape the world around them, and how they define this space.
Living in an apartment that is almost timelessly classic in its design, working the cushy job
of radio psychiatrists and going to chic restaurants and art events, Frasier Crane is a man of
means and class.
He's also incredibly vain, arrogant, and sometimes a complete goof.
But none of these qualities make him particularly likeable.
The key to Frasier's appeal is that he very deeply cares about people.
Frasier's job as a radiotherapist makes him something of a local celebrity in Seattle,
more so than you'd expect from someone on the radio.
And Frasier is more than happy to revel in that fame and fortune.
Then I will just tell them that they can take their five-figure deal and find someone else.
Five figures.
Didn't I mention pressures?
This is for television, the big kahuna.
Television.
The research has shown that a single television commercial can turn an obscure radio personality
into a national celebrity.
A year from now, someone like you could be broadcasting your message of hope and healing
not just to the Pacific Northwest, but to the entire nation.
That celebrity affords Frasier access to Seattle's more elite circles, often hobbing with the
most impressive of knobs.
What makes Frasier fun to watch is when that class status makes him the subject of mockery.
For example, when Bulldog tricks them into singing some Gilbert and Sullivan.
I don't suppose you happen to remember the words to Three Little Maids?
Well, let me see.
Three little maids from school are we?
Where does the school go where they may be?
Filled with the brim with girlish glee.
And the maids from school.
It's the classic comedy trope of laughing at someone in a higher class be humiliated.
And while it's easy to laugh at Frasier's class making him look silly, it does make
it tougher to empathize with him when it also isolates him from suffering.
In The Crucible, Frasier is the victim of fraud when a painting he's purchased is
revealed to be a forgery.
I didn't paint it.
Of course you didn't, you created it, you gave birth to it.
I didn't do anything to it.
I never saw this painting before in my whole life.
And you thought I was going to embarrass you?
The cops are unable to help Frasier, and a legal proceeding against the gallery he bought
the painting from would cost more than the painting is worth, leaving him with nothing
to do but hurl a brick through the gallery's window.
If you act like a barbarian, you will become a barbarian.
Give him the brick, Frasier.
And let him get away with this!
I know, I know.
What the gallery owner did to you was wrong.
It was humiliating.
But if you throw that brick through that window, you will have lost something more valuable
than your money.
You will have lost your mind.
Frasier, you can't do this!
Injustice for Frasier is a blow to his ego, but not the material conditions of his life.
Niles' advice is good only insofar that Frasier can afford to take a little humiliation.
What if this was someone who has swindled out of their savings, or even their weekly
paycheck?
The reason here is that the privileged can afford for the system to fail them.
At the end of the show's fifth season, Frasier's stand against KACL's station manager gets
him and all of his colleagues fired.
And we see Frasier in Season 6 out of work for the first nine episodes.
Frasier?
You're not famous anymore.
Kelsey Grammer spoke about these episodes with Frasier being out of work.
We thought it was a good storyline.
We got nine stories out of it.
We thought it was an interesting journey for him to take.
We always knew he was going to go back to the station, but I think it might have made
the audience uncomfortable because Frasier wasn't as attractive.
There was something more sad about him.
Frasier's suffering is a huge part of what makes the show work, but that's often seen
through his many failures in dating or struggling to hold a dinner party, being out of work
hit differently.
It's easy enough to empathize with a Frasier struggling to find someone.
Dating is universal.
And when his fancy dinner parties go awry, it's usually just his own vanity biting him
in the butt.
This pain wasn't as easy to laugh at.
It was understandable without being relatable, because even out of work, Frasier wasn't hurting
for money.
He was upset that he wasn't famous anymore.
It's possible to pity Frasier, but it's a lot harder to empathize.
And empathy is at the heart of what makes Frasier a great character.
We can see Frasier's personal empathy in his chosen profession as a psychiatrist.
Frasier's background in psychiatry means he's a medical doctor who has chosen to specialize
in mental health.
Although being a character created in 1984, he represents a very old-fashioned depiction
of a psychiatrist, one who fits the classic mold of having a patient sit on a couch while
they talk through their problems, as their psychiatrist takes notes and offers a few
insights.
Something you're more likely to see a psychologist do today rather than a psychiatrist.
Frasier practices his psychiatry through his radio show.
Hello, Mark.
I'm listening.
Okay.
Uh, well, I work at this all-night mini-mart, and, um, I've been watching myself on the
video camera, and the camera me is doing things I don't approve of.
These calls are often voiced by some pretty popular actors, including Mel Brooks, Ben
Steller, Elijah Wood, Mary Tyler Moore, and Kevin Bacon.
Frasier is a Freudian, which dates them even further back to the practice of psychoanalysis.
And psychoanalysis, as is sometimes mentioned on the show, doesn't have the best track
record.
In the episode, Chess Pains, after losing several games of chess against his father,
Frasier is obsessed with winning.
I am analyzing my options, unlike your winged abroach, I like to plan a strategy, like a
general leading his troops into battle.
Jack made Schwarzkopf.
Frasier, who fancies himself an intellectual force, can accept that his less-educated father,
who had never played chess before, is better than him.
So Frasier and Niles analyze why this is happening.
Sooner or later, the son eclipses the father, it's the natural order.
Yet, it's frequently a stumbling block, because the son's competitive stirrings
are accompanied by tremendous feelings of guilt.
I see.
Yes, it's the classic edible conflict.
My God.
And it seems so obvious now, I've been letting him win.
Later, Martin cuts the heart of what's really happening.
This isn't about losing, is it?
This is about losing to me.
That's what's driving you nuts.
How could I lose to the old man?
I'm much smarter than he is.
I never said that.
No, you didn't have to say you've thought it all your life.
No, I haven't.
No, you're insulting my intelligence again.
The answer is painfully obvious.
Martin is just better at chess than Frasier.
In fact, there's an episode of Cheers where Frasier loses a game of chess to the slow-witted
Woody, raising serious questions about Frasier's chess skills.
Rather than accept that, maybe he needs to improve his chess game, Frasier and Niles
concoct this Freudian explanation as to why Frasier keeps losing.
It isn't a genuine attempt to understand the situation, but rather to protect Frasier's
ego on the presumption that an educated man like him must be better at chess than Martin.
Even when Frasier finally wins, he has to make a subtle nod to his little pet theory
about this being some kind of Oedipal struggle.
I'm sorry I beat your dad.
This once again highlights how Frasier is at its funniest when it's highlighting the
excesses of the character.
The series often includes skepticism towards psychiatry and psychology more broadly, or
at least the type practiced by Frasier and Niles.
I'm not like a psychiatrist who works with someone for years and years and it doesn't
matter if they ever get better.
A bust of Freud.
Oh, well, that's really quite thoughtful of you.
I figured you'd appreciate the irony, since he's been proven wrong about practically everything.
I like to think that Freud's theories will stand the test of time.
Really?
Have you read either of his books?
Oh, what a relief.
I've been wringing my hands over nothing.
I mean, it's okay.
All I want to do is have sex with my dead mother.
That last clip is Frasier sighing in relief because he's figured out the meaning of
a particularly difficult dream he's been having where he finds himself in bed with
his colleague, Gil.
Well, look who's up.
Although dreams being secret desires people have isn't backed by much scientific evidence,
if you're someone who buys into dream analysis, the obvious reading here is that Frasier is
secretly gay, an interpretation he resists.
So he and Niles dive deep into their knowledge of dream analysis to pull together all sorts
of conclusions that will, supposedly, resolve the tension in Frasier's mind, letting him
avoid these dreams.
Once again, this analysis is very forced.
The tools of Freudian psychoanalysis are less a tool for greater understanding and
used instead to reassure Frasier's ego.
In the decades since his ideas were introduced, much of the work of Sigmund Freud has largely
been supplanted.
The best explanation I've heard as to why he should still be taught in an academic setting
is that his insights were incredibly important, even though his conclusions were ridiculous.
For example, his insight that human development is a product of not nature or nurture, but
rather nature interacting with nurture, was groundbreaking.
But his conclusion, that development was the guiding of sexual desire through distinct
stages from infancy to adolescence, leading to some kind of oral fixation, is completely
without empirical support.
While it might seem like I'm being a bit unfair to an older show, none of what I'm
saying is particularly new.
Freud's theories have been criticized for decades, and much of this was known in the
90s.
Frasier represents the classic idea of a psychiatrist in the world of pop culture, not reality.
The type of psychoanalysis done by Frasier is sometimes not much better than what Daphne
can figure out on her own.
By the end of this episode, Frasier realizes he's feeling frustrated at work because
he finds a lack of challenge in the colors he's getting, and according to him and Niles,
that should resolve the dream.
Except the episode ends like this.
And just to be clear, I'm not saying therapy is a bad thing.
In fact, working with a psychiatrist or psychologist can be incredibly helpful in improving one's
mental health.
What I am saying is that Frasier and Niles often let their biases impact their psychiatry,
particularly when they try to understand themselves, and that some of the theories and ideas that
they use are very out of date, even for the 90s.
There is another problem with the type of psychiatry practiced by Frasier and Niles
too.
Generally speaking, it is very expensive.
While Frasier doesn't charge his colors anything, his background and expertise come
from a field of medicine that is very lucrative.
Psychoanalytic therapy can involve multiple sessions a week, sometimes lasting for years,
and at a cost of one to two hundred dollars a session in today's money, this type of therapy
can be very costly.
Another way in which this series demonstrates the barriers class places between acts of
compassion.
Although Frasier has chosen a field that puts his help out of the reach of all but the most
privileged, one overarching aspect of his character, and one that makes him particularly likable,
is that he genuinely wants to help other people.
This can be seen in him choosing to host a show where people can call in with their problems
for free, as limited to help as that may be.
One specific example of Frasier's compassion overcoming his vanity is in the episode Death
Becomes Him.
When Martin's physician suddenly passes away, a man who was similar in physique, behavior
and temperament to Frasier, it leads him to question his own mortality.
Frasier becomes obsessed, planning his own funeral and trying to find a way in which
this doctor neglected his health.
He even crashes the man's shiva to learn more about him.
He only steps out of his vanity when the opportunity to help someone arises.
Frasier's insight comes from his own experiences, and he uses these moments of compassion for
others as opportunities to grow himself.
Which isn't the safest way to practice psychiatry, but on a more human, emotional level, it offers
the chance for two people to help one another.
In the episode Dark Victory, a disastrous birthday party for Martin leaves everyone
bickering.
With a blackout keeping them all indoors, Frasier makes the rounds with everyone in
his little extended family offer an advice to calm their various tensions.
It just makes me feel like I'm not very ambitious.
I mean, I could be working in a hospital or a clinic.
Of course you could, Daphne, but maybe that's not what's important to you right now.
I think you'd like being part of a family.
If you can't walk around Paris, you could sit at a nice cafe and let Paris walk past
you.
Maybe buy a glass of wine for a beautiful mademoiselle.
Get yourself a nice bottle of imported beer.
I only like Valentines.
In Paris, Valentines is imported beer.
Could it be that you're really upset just because you couldn't help that woman?
You know I really hate that.
When you take a simple criticism and you turn it back on me, well, I think I'm right.
Well, of course you're right while you think I hate it.
And at the end of it all, Frasier is left emotionally spent.
I tend to each one of you, and you all feel better, and the minute you get a whiff of mesquite
coming from down below, you are out the door, without so much as a thank you.
Well, thank you for the invitation, but I am frankly fed up with people and their problems.
The doctor is out.
Oh, great.
You didn't feel that way.
I am.
Okay, apologies, except-
Oh, great.
You'll come.
Frasier is a helper, from the colors on his show to his own family, and more than that,
he's willing to sacrifice his own downtime to help others.
Albeit while venting his frustrations at the situation, which is totally fair when
you consider his job is to help people, and having to do the same for the people in his
personal life might feel incredibly taxing.
But that gets to the heart of why he's a likable character.
He's willing to put others before himself.
One particularly clever part of this episode is that it takes place during a blackout,
which makes the fancy trappings around them disappear, leaving the characters with only
the props of their own baggage.
With all that gone, Frasier can navigate through the void, using only his compassion to connect
with his loved ones.
And it works very well.
Problems are solved, rifts are mended, and everyone is brought a few steps closer to
each other.
In the episode, The Thousandth Show, Seattle hosts a Frasier Crane Day episode, speaking
directly to Frasier's vanity.
For your sake and the stations to submit to a small, tasteful, low-key public rally.
A series of mishaps keep Frasier from the rally, and he's left to dwell on his own
sense of self.
I wanted my day.
I wanted hoopla and fuss, practically playing the whole thing myself.
When Frasier eventually gets to the rally via a limo ride, or rather, almost there,
he postpones attending because he's met someone who needs help.
Don't worry about me, I've got plenty of time, tell me more about your kids, alright?
I'm John, by the way, I'm Frasier.
The crumpled sign reflects how hollow the fame and fortune are compared to the act of
compassion.
Much like the blackout hiding Frasier's wealth, this obscuring of Frasier's fame
reveal that the true value of his character comes from how he helps people.
Frasier's wealth and radio show, fueled by his occasionally dubious psychiatry, create
a distance between him and the people he wants to help.
In the episode, Frasier's Edge, this becomes particularly evident.
After being told he'll be winning a Lifetime Achievement Award, Frasier has a crisis of
confidence and goes to see his old mentor, Dr. William Tewksbury, played by René Obejongwa.
Dr. Tewksbury reveals to Frasier that he has a tendency to keep people at a distance.
How's your practice?
I don't have a practice, I have a radio show.
Distance?
Any children?
Yes, I have a wonderful son with whom I'm very close.
You live with him?
He lives in Boston.
Distance?
With your wife?
My ex-wife.
Yes, I know.
Distance.
Wasn't she a psychiatrist?
Yes, she was.
She happened to be a damn good one, too.
Well, that's a handy choice for someone who'd rather share ideas than emotions.
Have you ever met Lilith?
No.
Well, she happens to be a very warm and loving woman.
Although psychoanalysis isn't always the best tool for providing therapy to someone,
it does make for a handy way of dissecting art, particularly art that holds it in high
regard.
This episode demonstrates the distance Frasier has created in his life, but it goes beyond
the personal relationships and professional choices he's made.
It goes deep into who he is as a character.
He lives in a social class that creates distance from the rest of the world.
He works in a profession only available to those with the means to pay for it.
And when he takes a step towards bringing his expertise to the people, it's done in
a way that keeps those people at a distance as well.
And somehow through all those distances, manages to make real connections and give people genuine
comfort.
Class, through the mediums of wealth and exclusive medical treatment, reveals itself to be a
barrier to expressions of human compassion.
Frasier is a likeable character, not because he uses his status to help others, but because
he can help others in spite of it.
Frasier simply wouldn't exist without Cheers, so it made perfect sense for some of those
old friends from Cheers to stop by for a few cameos throughout the years.
Frasier had been moved to Seattle, in part, to signify that this new show would be a departure
from Cheers, and the first season of Frasier deliberately avoided bringing back any other
Cheers alumni.
The one exception, naturally, was his ex-wife Lilith.
And the episode featuring her return, titled The Show Where Lilith Comes Back, was the
second most watched episode of Frasier ever.
Luckily for us, Frasier and Lilith still have that wonderful chemistry.
Lilith would make guest appearances in each of the show's 11 seasons, including a particularly
memorable episode where she hooks up with Niles.
Frasier's son Frederick, first played by Luke Tarsetano and then Trevor Einhorn, also
made several appearances, memorably offering some competition to Niles.
By the end of the series, we see how Frasier and Lilith have grown to have a meaningful
friendship together, and Frasier, in spite of Frederick entering his goth phase in the
final season, still manages to have a connection with his son.
Frasier, in spite of the challenges of living on the other side of the country, manages
to hold onto the things that matter most to him from his time in Boston.
It's a charmingly uplifting message.
Of course, there were some other connections from Boston who also had cameos.
In the season two episode, The Show Where Sam Shows Up, Sam Malone, naturally played
by Ted Denson, makes a surprise appearance in Seattle.
This episode also provides some interesting bits of trivia, such as highlighting how much
David Hyde Pierce looked like a young Kelsey Grammer when he first appeared on Cheers.
We also get some plot holes addressed, such as the truth behind Frasier's father.
In the episode, The Show Where Diane Comes Back, we get a cameo from Shelly Long, reprising
her role as Diane, Frasier's horror fiancé.
There was a very brief Diane cameo in season two, but it was this season three episode
that really brought her back for a proper Cheers reunion, complete with a stage production.
The episode offers Frasier the chance to get some real closure with Diane after over
a decade of bitterness.
In season six, Woody Harrelson once again took up the role of Woody Boyd in an episode
you'll be shocked to learn was called The Show Where Woody Shows Up.
This episode really seemed to tie a bow on the idea that Frasier was no longer a spin-off
and had cemented its own identity.
The last of the Cheers reunions is also the
only one with an original name, Cheerful Goodbyes.
This brought back Cliff Clavin, played by John Ratzenberger, Norm Peterson, played by
George Wendt, and Carla Maria, Victoria Angelina, Teresa Apollonia, Lu Ponce, Tartale Lebec,
played by Rhea Perlman.
Of the Cheers reunions, this one is the most extensive and feels the least natural.
Even though it takes place in Boston, there's no sign of the original Cheers bar.
It also doesn't quite feel the same without Sam, Woody, or Rebecca.
The interactions between the two casts are interesting, but are mostly a novelty.
The presence of a guy who looks suspiciously like Cheers director James Burroughs, who
also directed 32 episodes of Frasier, along with cameos from a number of Cheers regulars,
makes the whole episode feel like a messy celebration of the series that birthed Frasier.
It might have made for a good Cheers reunion, but it being an average episode of Frasier
speaks even further to how far apart these two shows have grown.
The only principal cast member from Cheers still alive to not appear on Frasier at all
was Christy Alley.
It's been reported that the reason why was because Alley, a practicing Scientologist,
didn't approve of a show about psychiatry.
When asked in an interview about why Alley hadn't appeared on the show, co-creator
David Lee said,
I don't recall asking.
The original premise for Frasier was the building of a relationship between Frasier and his
father Martin.
Many of the early episodes of the series include moments where Frasier and Martin make an effort
to connect, and it's a bit of a struggle for them.
Martin is the voice of reason when it comes to making things work.
Importantly, Martin's not just being roped into a pet project of Frasier's to mend their
relationship, he wants to reconnect as well.
And rather than through Frasier's exercises, growing closer comes about just by them being
together more often, creating new opportunities to learn about one another.
It seems like a tall order, with Martin being so unlike his sons, but Kelsey Grammer summed
up the dynamic nicely, saying,
People always ask how Frasier and Niles came from a father like Martin.
Martin's in public service, into knowing what's right and wrong.
That's exactly what his sons were.
On the simplest level, he was a good man, and their hope was to become the same thing.
One sweet example is in the episode, Martin Does It His Way, where the Crane men bond while
trying to piece together a song Martin had written decades previously he was hoping to
send to Frank Sinatra.
While many of the bonding moments were like this, the series also didn't shy away from
other types of bonding.
In Beloved Infidel, a secret is revealed about Martin and an old family friend.
But eventually, Frasier finds out the truth.
And the two have something to connect over.
The idea of bonding over trauma is a good one,
and the family connection makes it even stronger, helping forge this connection Martin and Frasier
were hoping for.
And by the fourth season, we started to see this father-son relationship take real shape.
In Our Father Whose Art Ain't Heaven, Frasier refuses a gift from Martin, and we see what
that gesture meant to the guy.
And Frasier wasn't the only son connecting to Martin.
Even the small gestures reveal how the two of them have grown closer together.
This all raises some interesting questions about the show, if, by the halfway point,
the main premise of a father and son reconnecting had already reached its conclusion.
What's to be done with Martin?
To understand Martin, though, it's important to take a step back and understand who his
character is aside from his relationship with Frasier.
Martin is often positioned on the show as the average guy.
The working class everyman most of the audience can relate to.
Except, Martin isn't really the average blue-collar worker he's presented as.
He's a former cop.
And that has an impact on how he sees the world.
Here's a brief example of his politics.
When Frasier is dealing with a con man in the episode, Fool Me Once, Shame On You, Fool
Me Twice, Martin makes his feelings about people in general clear.
Although we only get vague references to Martin's life before he became a cop, his time working
for the force has certainly cemented the idea that people are generally bad and need
the firm hand of the police to keep them in check.
Throughout the series, Martin is softened quite a bit, becoming more well-versed in
the finer things in life thanks to his time with Frasier, and becoming a kinder, gentler
person as a result of having a stronger home life in connection with his sons.
But his attitudes towards people more broadly doesn't change too much.
He can't share Frasier's optimism that people are generally good, and when he's given the
opportunity to offer some forgiveness of his own, he can't bring himself to do it.
In the season 8 episode, A Day in May, Martin attends the parole hearing of the guy who
shot him.
Even after speaking with the man's mother, Martin can't bring himself to make a statement
in favor of his release.
Martin doesn't have to forgive the guy who shot him, but his rigidness here represents
a side of him that he carries throughout the series, this skepticism towards the idea that
people can change for the better, which is ironic considering in his own change throughout
the series, such as finally mustering the courage to tell his sons that he loves them.
Martin's struggle to connect with his sons
and his cynicism towards society present a man who is trapped in certain confining
elements of masculinity.
We see Martin get angry when Eddie is playing with a doll, or his deep discomfort when Frasier
wants to talk about his concerns that he may be gay.
Martin has a very fixed idea of what it means to be a man in the world, and it's what makes
him miserable.
It may also be part of the reason he chose to become a police officer, a job that reflects
masculinity that drenched him in cynicism.
Martin is both a victim and a critique of the times he lived in, and sometimes the show
goes out of its way to present that to us.
Here's Martin opining on women getting pregnant out of wedlock.
In later seasons of the series, Martin began something close to a redemption arc.
In The Return of Martin Crane, we see Martin leave his early retirement, rejoining the working
world as a security guard.
Although not exactly quite the high-stakes job of his younger days, it does let him reclaim
part of his life by feeling like he's part of society.
It's not as though he's in dire need of assistance, with him being quite happy living
with Frasier, but Martin needs something to feel like he isn't just slipping into the
back pocket of someone else's life.
Unadorably, part of Martin reasserting himself often involves treating his sons like kids.
This happened throughout the series and was one of the few ways Martin would assert control
over his life.
Martin's dating life was a subject throughout the series.
While he had had some success with women, it wasn't until the show's final season
that he met Ronnie Lawrence, played by Wendy Mallick, a former babysitter of Frasier and
Niles.
It's a bit strange, considering the dynamic they used to have, though it has been over
thirty years since Ronnie was a teenage babysitter working for the Cranes.
Even so, Martin still feels a bit insecure.
Martin eventually tells Ronnie how strongly he feels about her, and the two grow closer
throughout the final season.
At the beginning of the series, Martin is a crotchety old man with a funny dog who lives
alone, with no real connections aside from his old buddies on the police force.
By the end, he's reconnected with his sons, found new family in Daphne and Roz, managed
to find his first lasting relationship since his wife passed away, a new purpose with a
new job, and he still has that funny dog.
Martin wasn't quite the everyman because it's difficult to believe that the average
man lives a life quite as tragic as his had been in that first episode, and one drenched
in so much cynicism and bitterness towards the world at large.
But by making him the everyman and highlighting his journey, it reveals that life can still
change, even in old age, in some of the most dire of circumstances, that you can discover
a new reason to wake up every morning.
Martin still carries the baggage of a cynical cop who's been shaped into someone suspicious
of the world around him, but by learning to find the good in his life, from family and
new friends, he's at least found some kind of happiness.
Frasier writer Joe Keenan explains this saying,
Martin could have stepped out of an Arthur Miller play.
The guy's lost everything he's loved, his wife, job, independence.
He has nothing left but his dog, chair, and two sons he feels look down on him.
Keenan warm-up to them gave the show its sweetest, most hopeful long-term arc.
In the episode Freudian Sleep, the cast of the show, Minus Ross, have a series of bizarre
nightmares while staying at a house in the mountains.
When we peer into Martin's dreams, though, they take a different tone.
Of all the sections, this one was a bit of a struggle, as Eddie is the character steeped
in the most scandalous of controversies.
I should acknowledge first one of the big ones that he has had a long-standing feud
with a certain type of bird.
I'd like to remind my audience that we aren't hearing the bird side of the story for this
incident, so please don't rush to judgment of this particular Blue Jay.
Behind the scenes, there was also ongoing drama between the dogs who played Eddie, Moose
and his son Enzo.
Co-creator Peter Casey explains,
Moose and Enzo hated each other.
They couldn't be on the set together.
Apparently it was one of those classic parent-child Hollywood rivalries.
Even with all this controversy swirling about, there were a number of wonderful Eddie moments.
Much of this should be credited to his trainer, Matilda Cagney.
She even got a nod in one of the episodes.
It's difficult to analyze the majesty and depth of the Eddie character, so I won't
go into too much more detail aside from the fact that throughout the series he was, unquestionably
and unwaveringly, a very good boy.
There were also the revelations in his groundbreaking biography, the details of which can be safely
passed over in this video.
You can see this book out of your careers to learn more about this pup.
One of the signature styles of Frasier was its use of farce.
These comedies of errors revolved around a misunderstanding or misunderstandings spiraling
out of control.
An early example is the episode The Matchmaker, where Frasier's new boss thinks he's gay.
Another would be the innkeepers, where Frasier and Niles open a restaurant together.
Or the much beloved Ham Radio, where Frasier stages a radio play.
But the most fondly remembered of these episodes, so much so that it's the favorite of many
fans, is the ski lodge.
After Roz wins a free trip to a ski lodge, Frasier convinces to sell it to him.
So he takes Niles, Martin, Daphne, and Daphne's friend Annie, played by Cynthia LaMontagne,
to enjoy a ski trip, complete with ski instructor Guy, played by James Patrick Stewart.
This episode featured an elaborate ski lodge set, one of only two that was so big it was
built in front of the main set of Frasier's apartment.
The basic idea of this episode is that everyone, aside from Martin, is attracted to another
person in that ski lodge, only no one seems to know who is into who.
Frasier is into Annie, Annie is into Niles, Niles is, of course, into Daphne, Daphne
is into Guy, and Guy is into Niles.
Some misunderstandings lead to a few memorable moments.
It's all absurdly convoluted, yet somehow still manages to work.
The writer for the episode, David Lee, explains why this episode worked so well.
The motivations always have to be absolutely real.
It helps if they come from the heart.
They can also come from lower on the anatomy, which they often do, but what really gets
the audience engaged is when they care about the characters.
In this case, it was Niles' feelings that you cared about.
Niles and Daphne are probably the most important relationship in the series, being the only
long-running story arc that lasts throughout the whole show, and one that was featured
in its most watched episode.
Niles and Daphne first meet in the third episode of the series, Dinner at Eight.
Although Daphne happily acknowledges him, Niles' reaction is a bit more extreme.
The
complication here is that Niles is very much a married man to the unseen Maris, which doesn't
stop him from making certain overtures.
The Niles and Daphne relationship would continue like this in the early seasons of
the show, though at first it wasn't supposed to happen at all.
In interviews, David Hyde Pierce would tell the story of how, while doing press for the
show before production began, Jane Leves would mention the idea that perhaps Daphne
and Niles should get together.
This manifested on the writing side in its own way.
Writer-producer, N. Fletch Giordano, explains an encounter with series producer, Christopher
Lloyd.
Early in the first season, Niles comes to the apartment.
Chris, realizing that Niles would be meeting Daphne for the first time, said, what if he
had a crazy crush on her?
And it was here this multi-year crush began, with many delightful misunderstandings.
This is one of me psychic headaches.
There's some kind of negative force out there.
I only get these when there's a clawing at the cosmic continuum.
Perhaps if someone robbed your temples, that's...
By goodness, Dr. Crane, shouldn't you be out there mixing?
Oh, don't mind me.
I'm just getting some ice.
Lovely party.
Dr. Crane is always dropping by and bringing me little gifts, and he's not after anything.
Although charming in their execution, there's something a bit strange about a married man
drooling over his father's physical therapist.
Though it might make Niles appear like a brute to his wife, David Hyde Pierce performed
the character in a way that made his love for Maris clear.
Writer Joe Keenan explains.
No matter how ludicrous our descriptions got, David made Niles' feelings about the marriage
very real.
He knew that if Niles didn't love Maris, there'd be no reason for us to care when she divorced
him, or for Niles to feel conflicted and hide his love for Daphne.
That can be seen in episodes such as, An Affair to Forget, where Niles confronts Maris'
fencing instructor, Gunnar, over an affair Niles suspects Gunnar is having with Maris.
Luckily for Niles, he finds out Maris has remained faithful.
The early flirtations between Niles and Daphne happen with the spectre of Maris around them.
In spite of that barrier to them being together, there's still an obvious chemistry between
them.
In the first seasons, a midwinter night's dream, a storm traps Daphne at Niles' mansion
while Maris is in Arizona.
As Niles comforts Daphne after a recent breakup, things get heated.
Dr. Crane, your glockenspielers sprung to life.
Oh, the clock!
Maris.
You really loafer, don't you?
You know, I do.
Love is a funny thing, isn't it?
Sometimes it's exciting and passionate, and sometimes it's something else.
Something comfortable and familiar.
David Hyde Pierce describes Niles' attraction to Daphne, saying,
I think she's just an exotic flower to him, and she's so beautiful and it's so unusual
for him to be treated by a woman with such friendliness that he's overwhelmed by that
openness because Maris is so manipulative and difficult.
Niles and Maris' marriage over the years deteriorates, leading to separation and then
eventually divorce.
It never sounded particularly happy, but whatever it was, was enough for Niles.
That is, until the arrival of Daphne, which introduced something new and different to
him.
At first, it could simply be the echo of a wealthy man lusting after a woman of a lower
class, a very old trope, and seen in classic works of literature such as Pamela.
Class has a very strange place in this relationship though, as we never see Niles consider Daphne
beneath him.
Rather, he just seems her as different and enticing.
The timing of Niles and Maris' divorce, a few years after the arrival of Daphne, does
suggest that the idea of something more may have fueled its end at some level, though
the series never makes that explicit.
The closest sign we get is when, during his separation, Niles takes Daphne to a ball in
the episode Moon Dance.
What started off as an evening to show Niles' friends he wasn't sulking over Maris becomes
something more than that.
Niles is on the cusp of getting swept away with Daphne until he learns the truth.
A crucial part of this episode is that Niles brought Daphne to impress his snooty, high
society friends.
The idea that Niles would show up with someone of a lower class to impress a bunch of snobs
doesn't really make sense, though it does reveal that, when it comes to Daphne, Niles
sees her for more than who she is in her social standing.
To her being a beautiful woman, I'm sure helps as well.
Although Niles clearly has romantic feelings for Daphne, part of what keeps it from getting
too creepy is that, ultimately, he cares about her as a person.
He may want to be with her, but he also wants her to be happy.
Before his divorce with Maris, we see this in the episode Kisses Sweeter Than Wine.
This reluctantly helps Daphne connect with his handyman, Joe.
Next season, when Daphne breaks up with Joe for good, the separated Niles and Daphne have
a nice talk.
Unrequited love is
one of the oldest tropes in English literature.
It can be traced back to the medieval concept of courtly love, which would often entail
a man's desire for an unavailable woman, although when it comes to women of a lower
class, whether or not she's unavailable never quite enters into the equation.
In this instance, it actually subverts that expectation.
Niles doesn't see Daphne as a lower class woman he can take advantage of, but as an
equal, or someone even greater than himself.
It's a bit strange to square the idea that Daphne, who clearly understands and cares
for Niles as a friend, is still somehow oblivious to his attraction towards her.
Jane Leaves explains why from her own perspective.
This old trope of pining for an oblivious woman can create many great episodes and moments,
as the series so easily demonstrates, but it does also carry with it a more pernicious
element, and that's the objectification of Daphne.
By objectification, I don't mean in the more commonly understood sense of highlighting
a woman's physical form over her character.
Daphne wasn't really objectified in that way.
At least, not that often.
What I mean is all those delightful moments where Niles fawns over an oblivious Daphne
are effectively removing her from the scene as a full character.
When Niles and Daphne have one of these cute little moments, there are two conversations
happening.
The obvious one, in which Daphne is showing Niles how to blow a smoke ring, and the subtextual
one of Niles getting turned on by Daphne.
In many of these moments, these scenes don't just include Daphne and Niles, but also have
Fraser Martin present to underscore what's going on.
It isn't just Niles drifting off into a world of fantasy, it's a secret conversation
happening between the Crane men.
Even a conversation that's little more than a few weighted glances.
Even at the two layers of these moments, Niles and the other men operate on both, while
Daphne only operates on one.
In that second later, she is present, but not as an active participant, but rather an
unthinking element to be played against, like a prop, or an object.
The show itself acknowledges this dynamic in the episode, Perspectives on Christmas, where
each of the characters describe a disastrous Christmas from their own points of view.
Here's how Martin observed one of those moments.
And here's how that same moment played out from Daphne's perspective.
And the show certainly doesn't shy away from making fun of her with moments like this.
In the early seasons, this was a common trend for Daphne, unfortunately.
She was such a charmingly offbeat character that existed purely as you saw her, without
much of an interior life.
Even stories that focused on her, such as her having her boyfriend spend the night at
Frasier's apartment with her, ended up becoming stories more focused on other characters,
in this case Frasier and his anxiety about Daphne having a man over.
This can be seen in a comment from Christopher Lloyd.
He's describing why Niles and Daphne work as a couple.
I thought, could it be because she's so different than he is?
He's upper class, and she's working class.
She says what's on her mind, and he's restrained and thoughtful.
Jane Lees did have some say in making Daphne a more interesting character over the years,
even filling in some of her backstory.
She explained in an interview,
Daphne was like a pair of comfy shoes.
She had a sort of earthiness and honesty that definitely came from me.
I told the writers that a girl who's comfortable around these men, who doesn't take any of
their crap, must come from a household filled with men.
In one of the more ironic twists of the series, by being actively pursued by Niles, instead
of him just loving her from afar, Daphne started to become a more well-rounded character.
As Niles' divorce with Maris starts to get messy, he decides to change his legal representation
from a high-priced law firm to one of Roz's ex-boyfriends, Donnie Douglas, played by Sol
Rubinec.
And while he offers an immediate reversal of fortune for Niles' finances, netting
him a nice settlement, Donnie's presence also has another unexpected consequence.
Who understands why anything happens?
I mean, it's remarkable how completely one's life can change in an instant.
Poor Niles.
It's over the next season and a half, things start getting messy, with Donnie and Daphne
getting engaged, and Niles starting to date Mel, played by Jane Addams, a plastic surgeon
who had worked extensively on Maris.
One day though, a pulled muscle in Frasier's back changes everything.
While he's sitting in, and of all places, Martin's chair, Frasier ruminates about
his life.
A terrified Daphne tries to confirm the issue with Martin.
After taking some medication, Frasier asks Daphne for a massage, which gets pretty awkward,
but eventually the misunderstanding is partially revealed.
And everything is fine, until the meds Frasier took start to kick in.
Frasier doesn't remember spilling the beans, and it appears Daphne has learned the truth
with everyone else, none the wiser.
But Niles is a little more astute than everyone else.
While dating Donnie, Daphne had gradually been revealing more of herself.
We learned more about her life in Manchester, and about the things that made her happy.
But this is the moment that really made her come to life as a character.
Maybe it's the simple fact that having a secret reveals an interior of her life, and
one that puts her on par with the other characters around her.
In some ways, it even gives her an edge, since they don't know that she knows the truth
about Niles' feelings for her.
We can see that inversion very clearly in moments where Daphne and Niles have their
roles reversed in those little moments of subtext.
It's fitting that Niles, being an old-handed this, can sense something is a mess.
Things finally reach a boiling point with the Season 7 finale and two-parter, something
borrowed, someone blue.
Daphne's wedding is fast approaching, and she needs to get some things off her chest.
She needs to get some things off her chest, and she needs to get some things off her
chest.
Unfortunately for Daphne, Niles and Mel have some news of their own.
Before the wedding, Fraser notices how Niles and Daphne look at one another, and he decides
to confront Niles.
This gives Niles the courage to finally tell Daphne the truth.
10 minutes later, she finally responds.
Although the episodes seem to end with Daphne deciding she can't leave Donnie, luckily
for all of us, we still got a happy ending.
After seven long years of seeing Niles and Daphne go from awkward flirtation to a romantic
escape, it felt as though this story was reaching its climax, and that was reflected in the
ratings as this was the most watched episode of Fraser, seen by nearly 34 million people
in the United States.
When Niles kisses Daphne for the first time, it gave me goosebumps.
I had lived with these characters for so long, as did the audience, and wanted that moment
for them.
And David Hyde Pierce shares this experience of the moment, saying,
Love stories often don't extend beyond the moment when two people finally get together,
and we simply expect them to live happily ever after.
But love isn't so simple in real life, and sometimes the hardest stories to tell aren't
about how a couple gets together, but rather how that couple stays together.
The moment when Daphne and Niles get together is often cited as where Fraser starts going
downhill, and while ratings did begin to decline, I would argue the quality was still certainly
there, only we weren't getting any more of those moments of hidden desire leading to
a comedic misunderstanding.
We were going to see how this couple dealt with the idea of changing their lives on the
spot for a chance at a love that might only come once in a lifetime.
When Niles and Daphne finally got together, there was a certain tension gone that had
been sustaining the series in ways we didn't understand.
When the eighth season began, it picked up right where the finale left off, with Niles
and Daphne figuring out how to navigate lives they had just destroyed.
Leaving your fiancé on your wedding day, and divorcing your wife on the fourth day
of marriage, does create some feelings of resentment.
These obstacles would be dealt with over the next couple of episodes, but I want to highlight
another important moment.
Although Daphne had been close with the Cranes, it's only now we see her being treated more
like family.
It's also a clear indicator that Fraser sees her as an equal.
She effectively marries into a higher class.
The episode even ends with Martin and Fraser putting together a special dinner for the
new couple.
The biggest challenge to the Niles and Daphne relationship is how devoid it is of any real
tension that it might end.
No one can doubt for a second that Niles is hopelessly devoted to her, and Daphne seems
to be quite taken with him as well.
The show plays a little with this idea when the stress of looking up to Niles' expectations
leads Daphne to gain a significant amount of weight.
Behind the scenes this was done to accommodate Jane Leaves' pregnancy, but it did raise
some interesting questions about how two people can date when so much of it is based on a
love that was built on years of pining.
How can reality ever live up to that?
Although Niles takes this revelation personally and the two have their first fight, they reconcile
before the end of the episode, and the two manage to stay together for the rest of the
series.
The episodes for Niles and Daphne that stand out the most are like this one though.
Ones where tension arises and the relationship is threatened, but at this point in the series
it's unthinkable that these two would ever break up, and what tension is created is undercut
because of that.
There's no will they or won't they, it's very clear that they will, and have.
In the same way Niles is utterly committed to Daphne, the show is utterly committed to
making this relationship work, spending years showing how Niles longs for her, using moments
to reveal how good the two of them are together, and revealing how much they've always cared
for one another.
Although it's certainly possible to tell interesting stories about how a couple stays
together, the series had the added pressure of years of buildup that might have felt like
a cruel tease had Niles and Daphne broken up a year or two after getting together.
By season 9 in the episode, The Proposal, we get exactly that.
Instead of a big lavish wedding, Niles and Daphne end up eloping in Las Vegas.
The threats to Niles and Daphne are often external to the relationship, such as when
Niles faces a medical emergency and is rushed to the hospital for an operation.
There's also the return of Maris, who re-enters Niles' life after she accidentally murders
her two boyfriend with a crossbow.
The Niles and Daphne relationship is one that was defined by tension, and once that inner
tension was resolved, went on to face a series of tensions from outside the relationship,
always chasing that earlier feeling.
Although Niles and Daphne are lovely together, their on-screen dynamic only occasionally
explored that relationship.
Instead, we had exes, near-death experiences, and murderers threatening to tear these two
apart.
When Daphne and Niles had grown so much to be together, their relationship never quite
managed to do the same.
When people say Fraser changed after Niles and Daphne got together, they're right,
and change doesn't have to be a bad thing.
But when you go to a show, in part, for the exciting romantic tension, and it's all gone,
you can't help but feel as though something has been lost.
And the new thing might appear hollow if it seems to be an imitation of the old thing.
There is something to be said for seeing a happy couple together instead of one in constant
conflict.
It just wasn't as enthralling as the pursuit.
It also highlights another way in which class manifests itself in the series.
Daphne and Niles, on paper, shouldn't work.
He's a rich psychiatrist, and she's a kooky physical therapist.
But it does work, in spite of this class divide.
And it serves as a reminder that true love is possible when you're willing to ignore
the things that don't matter, in this case, social class.
Because doing so opens a door to meeting someone who represents a whole new world of possibilities.
Jane Lees describes it.
She is the complete opposite of anything he's ever known.
She's grounded and down to earth, and that's just not the sort of person he's used to.
She's not out for herself like everybody else.
She's there to help others.
And it turns him on to see her rooting around under the sink and fixing things.
The only real journey left for them to take together is the one to parenthood.
Although this is Daphne's first child, in a way this is Niles' second.
Though the show never did answer what happened to that little bag of flour.
Or maybe we do now.
Frasier was rightfully lauded as having a very strong record on depicting gay characters,
often tackling stereotypes head-on.
David Hyde Pierce explains.
It was never jokes at the expense of gay people.
We had gay people on staff.
David Lee, one of the creators on the show, is gay, and so, to me, it was always acknowledging
the preposterousness of stereotypes.
This dynamic was, while explained in Matt Baum's excellent video, Frasier and sitcoms
of the gay 90s, so give it a watch if you'd like to learn more about that.
Instead, I'd like to talk about some other forms of representation on the series.
NBC's lineup of sitcoms throughout much of the 90s, which Frasier was a part of on
Thursday's nights, was overwhelmingly white, and this wasn't an accident.
One of the executive producers of The Fresh Prince of the Balair, Andy Burrowitz, described
what it was like to be producing one of the few sitcoms for NBC on primetime that had a
black cast.
The knee-jerk response in the network was, maybe we need more cast members on the show.
They never said white, but curiously, all the characters they proposed were white.
They believed a white audience wouldn't watch a black show.
This came after programs including The Cosby Show and The Jeffersons demonstrated the opposite,
but with cable channels attracting more of that TV audience, big networks such as NBC
started trying to appeal more to that white audience the only way they knew how, making
shows predominantly featuring white people.
None of this is to say that Frasier was a show built specifically to appeal to white
people, but it's certainly a fact that its makeup was a perfect fit for NBC, reflected
in as simple a change as suggesting the Latina housekeeper on the show's original pitch
instead be an Englishwoman.
Frasier had a strange relationship with race, in that it says very little about it, and
the one time it does, we get the episode, Something About Dr. Mary.
In this episode, Frasier's temporary replacement for Roz, Mary, played by Kim Coles, starts
getting too comfortable participating in the show, and Frasier feels too awkward to tell
her to ease up a little.
Interestingly enough, in this season 7 episode, the first one to ever mention race, we get
this line.
A scene with three white men talking about how, perhaps, white people are being too sensitive
about racial issues, is a very 90s moment.
We also have Frasier acting out a paranoid white guy fantasy of what it's like to disagree
with a black woman.
Frasier comes clean and confesses the truth to Mary, who, of course, takes it all in stride.
All ends well as Mary's interjections made her so popular she's offered her own show.
A show with a white cast talking about race isn't impossible to do well.
A few years prior, Roseanne did a masterful job with White Men Can't Kiss.
Frasier is a sad reminder, though, that these topics can be clumsily handled in the hands
of a creative team, completely divorced from the experiences they're speaking to.
Though it does reflect quite nicely the misplaced anxieties certain white people might feel
when discussing race.
The show did fare slightly better over the years, introducing the less stereotypical
character of Cam Winston, and having his mother Cora have a brief relationship with Martin.
But these are characters for whom race is incidental, and they neatly fit into Frasier's
upper class world.
Another uncomfortable blind slot is the character of Maris, which only makes sense because we
never see her.
The show goes out of its way to describe how odd she is, being an heiress who is constantly
engaging in surgeries and beauty treatments to keep herself looking young and beautiful.
In the episode, To Thine Old's Self Be True, we find out Maris has been struggling with
an eating disorder.
The episode includes much discussion about how Maris has gained so much weight that she's
gone from dangerously thin to dangerously overweight.
In both cases, it's played for a laugh.
Not being able to see Maris has always made it easy to create this bizarre entity to drive
comedy.
But if we could see her in this moment, eating away her misery that Niles has moved on without
her, I imagine we'd probably feel more pity than anything else.
It puts in stark relief all the other times Maris was described as being too light to
leave footprints in the snow, or her weight being so smaller in her youth that Frasier
was amazed she was even alive.
A person that small and frail probably wouldn't be nearly as funny if you saw her in the flesh.
And you could see what her eating disorder is doing to her.
This, along with Frasier's record on race, underscores one of the sad truths about the
series.
It's a show about white men that struggles to see anything outside that perspective,
and by not acknowledging those other perspectives makes Hei out of struggles that feel like
laughing down.
What keeps these episodes from getting too uncomfortable is how class acts as something
of a barrier to disguise what's happening.
In something about Dr. Mary, it can be argued that the comedy comes from Frasier's lack
of perspective outside of his upper class world, even if the Mary character reads like
a stereotype.
In the case of Maris, her obscene wealth makes her far less empathetic a character, even
though her disorder is incredibly tragic.
In both cases, it's the status of the characters that informs the audience that it's okay
to laugh at what's happening.
It's another way in which class is a barrier to feeling empathy, something core to the
character of Frasier.
I'm certainly not saying we shouldn't laugh at the rich and powerful.
In fact, I'd say we should err on the side of laughing at them more.
But it is worth considering why we're laughing, whether it's for the silly excesses of the
wealthy or the problems that impact people across class lines.
Roz Doyle is a tough character to pin down, particularly in the beginning of the series.
Frasier needed someone to interact with as part of his radio show, but only a few small
details about the character really existed.
When Perry Gilpin got the role, she was told by the creative team that they weren't really
sure who Roz was as a character, leaving her wide open to the actress' interpretation.
Gilpin once said in an interview,
I imagined Roz constantly trying to live up to a forceful mother.
I actually based a lot of her on a really good friend of mine.
She's super smart, self-dependent, sexually adventurous, and honest about it.
Although this might have led her to evolve into a cliche, she managed to be a sexually
active career woman without becoming a negative stereotype.
In the episode, Roz and the Dog House, we see Bulldog, the perpetual sexual harasser
at the station, appeal to Roz for her producing talents.
I did not sleep with Bulldog, he didn't even hit on me.
He didn't want something though, wanted me to leave you and come be his new producer.
Well, I wonder why he said that.
Eventually we find out Roz's suspicions to be true, and Roz is quick to stand up to
Bulldog.
Get out!
I'll show you how to work, you disgusting farmer!
Hey, hey, hey!
You're gonna have to slow down!
I'm getting some mixed signals here.
The lesson, almost learned here, was for Roz to respect the talent of his producer, as
we did see how talented Roz was in helping improve Bulldog's show.
But it's undercut by the reality that, in spite of her skills, Roz was still reduced
to her sexual appeal by both of her bosses.
This is something of a running theme for the character in the early seasons, and while
it puts her on par with Frasier and Niles, who often end up being humiliated by people
who know better, it hits a bit different when it's someone who doesn't have the same
degree of power or status.
Of all the characters on the show, it's Roz who is the most detached from the rest of
the cast.
Much like Daphne in the earlier seasons, Roz isn't highlighted the way many of the crane
men are, sometimes reduced to only having one or two scenes in an episode.
Unlike Daphne, she doesn't get the same opportunity of character growth when she
becomes involved with Niles, often leaving Roz as the odd one out.
The most meaningful connection Roz has to the rest of the cast is her friendship with
Frasier, although this does get teased as them being more than friends multiple times.
Aside from one night where they hook up, the two of them never come close to anything
romantic.
The relationship simply works best with them being friends.
The friendship between Roz and Frasier is a bit different.
Not just because of the class divide, but because Frasier is Roz's boss.
It leads to some strange moments, such as the episode Roz alone, where Frasier loans
Roz some money, and then becomes very judgmental when he sees how she spends it.
Daphne is luckily there to point out how Frasier's loan of $1500 contrasts his usual
spending habits.
It's also worth mentioning that Roz being on hard times is because Frasier got her,
and everyone else at KACL, fired when he made his stand against the station manager.
Frasier eventually confronts Roz about her spending habits.
Even their reconciliation is kind of weird, as Roz is forced to listen to Frasier's apology
because she's his producer and he's doing it on the air.
These power dynamics come up several times throughout the series.
Frasier and Roz are absolutely friends, but they aren't quite on the same level.
The tension in this relationship always seems to come from the fact that Frasier has power
over Roz, and reveals the perils of friendships within hierarchies.
It's not as simple as saying, no one can ever be friends with their boss, that's obviously
not true.
Rather, what the series suggests is that this dynamic presents a barrier or obstacle in
that friendship.
In season 9, Roz meets Roger, a man who would be one of her longest romantic partners on
the show.
There are some echoes of class in that relationship as Roger is a garbage man, something that
at first embarrasses Roz, but over time she learns to accept it.
By the end of the season, sadly they've broken up.
Although Frasier tries to reach out to her, she insists she's fine.
The rest of this episode, titled Frasier has Spokane, focuses on Frasier's expanding
to the Spokane market, and him struggling to be accepted by the listeners there.
Roz is enlisted to help out, posing as a caller looking for help.
Frasier and Roz have a very real connection, and it reveals the workplace friendships are
just as valid as any other.
Working together was never the problem for Frasier and Roz.
Roz having to answer to Frasier as her boss was what introduced a power dynamic that undercut
what is otherwise a very meaningful friendship.
This is a reflection of what I was saying earlier about Frasier and how class creates
barriers between him and the people he cares about.
Roz is clearly no exception, and while it does provide an interesting reading for her
character, it does frame the Frasier and Roz friendship as less about her story and more
about his.
There was one storyline for Roz that was all her own, and that was the birth of her daughter
Alice.
The birth of Alice was not planned by Roz, or even the show's producers.
Christopher Lloyd in an interview said,
It was the network's idea.
It's one of those things because they like doing event shows.
And so in the season 5 episode Halloween, we find out Roz is expecting.
And as is tradition for the show, it's revealed in the most embarrassing way possible.
If anybody's going to propose to Roz as Frasier, how could you do that?
Get her pregnant?
It was Frasier.
Listen, everybody, I am not the father of Roz's baby.
In fact, we don't even know for sure if there is a baby.
We do now.
The father is a young barista working at Cafe Nervosa, who Roz encourages to go live his
life as she intends to raise the baby on her own.
I hope that you can understand why I can't possibly marry you.
When I get married, it's going to be to someone I love.
And someone who loves me.
And someone who can legally drink champagne at my wedding.
Okay.
I understand.
Although Roz doesn't think this is going to be as easy to handle as she lets on.
I can't take this.
Damn it.
I've let this happen.
Are we still talking about the milk?
Don't you see?
Milk is a staple.
I let a staple go bad.
Good mothers don't let stables go bad.
How can I be responsible for a child when I can't even keep fresh milk in the house?
Kids need milk.
I have to know everything.
You can know half of everything.
You can know about the milk and Lilith can know about the booties and the snugglies.
You never met Lilith, did you?
What seemed to be the beginning of Roz's character moving in a new direction never quite gets off the ground,
as even the delivery of the baby is almost smuggled into an episode about Frasier and Niles competing over the same woman at a party.
What is wrong with me?
What is wrong with me?
Why can't I find a single woman who's interested in me?
Those are two different questions, really.
So we should just sit down and talk them both over.
Oh wait, I can't.
Because I'm in labor!
Still, we do get a cute moment with baby Alice.
Oh, look at her.
Oh, she's beautiful.
Mazel tov.
It's a long story.
And that was about it.
On the odd occasion, we would see Alice appear in an episode or Roz would make a reference to having to stay home because she couldn't find a babysitter.
But otherwise, we don't get too much of a change in Roz's life, aside from maybe her dating habits slowing down a bit.
One interesting bit of trivia about Roz Doyle is that she gets her name from one of the producers on Wings,
the show David Angel, Peter Casey, and David Lee created before Frasier.
The real-life Roz Doyle passed away in 1991 from breast cancer.
Towards the end of the series, we see some development in sight for Roz as she's offered a job as station manager at a rival radio station.
I must say, I've got sort of mixed feelings about this.
I mean, I couldn't be happier.
They're finally getting the recognition you deserve, but I'm going to miss you.
Well, let's wait till there's a real offer before we break out the Kleenex and Champagne.
Roz, being so capable, gets the job.
Well, I got the job!
Oh, congratulations, Roz.
I'm so proud of you.
Now, can I tell you how much I'm going to miss you?
Yes.
This two-parter is a strange dynamic where Roz inserts herself into Frasier's new relationship with co-worker Julia,
played by Felicity Huffman.
Though, ultimately, none of this goes anywhere.
Frasier breaks things off with Julia, and Roz exits the new job to go back to her old one at KACL.
While a bit of an odd part of the show, it does reveal to us that Roz aspires to be something more than a producer for Frasier's show.
And that's something we learn a little more about in the finale of the series.
One major part of the series I haven't really touched on is Frasier's long-standing problems with dating.
Throughout the over 250 episodes of the show, we see Frasier go on countless dates,
struggling to find happiness with women that are a bad fit for him, a great fit for him,
and ones who don't stick around long enough for us to find out.
Frasier's struggle to find a relationship is one of the core conflicts of the series.
Season 9 opens with the two-parter Don Juan in Hell, where Frasier dives deep into his own mind to figure out what he wants,
imagining the many women who he's had relationships with.
I have carried you with me throughout every relationship, on every date.
You pick apart the women I care about and you remind me how much it'll hurt if I open myself up.
You don't help me.
You hold me back.
How will I ever move forward if I don't put you behind me?
Although this two-parter led Frasier to a place of emotional strength, ready to enter into a meaningful relationship,
it would be two more seasons until he found the last of the women he would earnestly pursue on the series.
Charlotte, played by Laura Linney.
We only meet Charlotte seven episodes before the series finale,
but Linney spoke about the experience of joining the cast so late in its run.
I was a Frasier fan for so long.
I think Charlotte's a good-hearted fumbling person trying her best, but things weren't working,
and she was beginning to lose heart a little bit.
In a fitting turn, Charlotte met Frasier while trying to help him make a meaningful connection as a matchmaker.
After setting up a series of disastrous dates, Frasier realizes he's attracted to Charlotte.
After some brief maneuvering around Charlotte's less-than-ideal boyfriend Frank, played by Aaron Eckhart,
Frasier manages to get closer to Charlotte, until finding out something crucial.
I know I should have told you sooner, but it was never the right time.
Frasier and Charlotte decide to spend the last three weeks she has together,
and that time is drawing to a close in the final episode, two-parter, Goodnight Seattle.
As the episode begins, we can see the cast all reaching pivotal turning points in their lives.
Martin and Ronnie, having gotten engaged a few episodes earlier, are planning their wedding.
A very pregnant Daphne could give birth at any moment, and unbeknownst to Roz,
she has an exciting career opportunity ahead of her,
and Frasier is preparing to say goodbye to Charlotte.
The episode opens with Frasier on a plane,
recounting the strange turn of events that got him aboard that flight,
and it began with Frasier's agent, Bebe, letting Frasier know he has an exciting new job offer.
As Frasier weighs his options, he has to say goodbye to Charlotte as she leaves for Chicago.
At Martin and Ronnie's wedding, disaster hits when Eddie, the ring bearer, eats the wedding ring.
Daphne and Niles take Eddie to the vet, and then her water breaks.
And just like that, she has a brand new baby boy.
He's named David, which is possibly a tribute to series co-creator David Angel,
who had passed away with his wife a few years prior.
Martin and Ronnie arrive and get married at the vet's office.
And for good measure, it's also Eddie's birthday.
It only loosely enters into the plot, but I felt like it needed to be mentioned.
After the wedding, Martin and Ronnie plan on moving in together,
and with Daphne already moved in with Niles, it leaves Frasier finally alone in his apartment.
As he poses for a meme, we see the end of an era as Martin's chair is moved out of the apartment.
In a cute nod to the first episode, the same actor who moved in Martin's chair is also the one who takes it away.
With Martin moved out, and Daphne and Niles now busy with their new son,
a lonely Frasier decides to take that job in San Francisco.
Roz is also moving on as she's promoted to station manner at KACL.
Everyone gathers in Frasier's apartment to say goodbye before he moves to San Francisco.
Martin's goodbye is particularly sweet, hearkening back to the first episode as he finally thanks Frasier.
And Niles, simply as Niles?
The episode is capped off with Frasier reading Tennyson's poem Ulysses and braving one more change in his life, which brings us back to that flight.
Frasier taking a chance on love is a nice way to bookend the series.
What is life without taking those chances, making those gestures, striving for something to live for?
Frasier's life has consistently been one about the barriers that prevent him from connecting to others.
Some a product of his class, others of his own making.
It's a great irony that runs through a series about a man who makes his living helping others.
His abysmal dating record is perhaps the greatest symbol of his lack of ability to connect to anything, with bad luck explaining some of his troubles and circumstance affecting the rest.
Frasier deciding to take one more leap in his life and heading towards the great unknown of Chicago to be with Charlotte is him finally jumping over one of those barriers.
Finally closing one of those distances.
And he's also turning down a great job offer as part of it, effectively sacrificing fame and fortune for a chance at love.
If Frasier began this series as a silly rich man to absorb with vanity to find real happiness in his life, the finale is him choosing not to venture deeper into that world so he might find something more meaningful.
When asked his thoughts on what fate awaited Frasier, Kelsey Grammer said,
I sometimes think Frasier went to Chicago and Charlotte told him to get the hell out.
That seems to be his luck.
Maybe they ended up with a wonderful life together.
And maybe we'll find out someday.
Goodnight Seattle, we love you!
Kelsey Grammer had been mentioning the possibility of a reboot as far back as 2018, with plans originally being a third act for Frasier in a whole new setting.
The plan was, at first, to have it air in 2020, though that never materialized.
On February 24th, 2021, it was revealed that the series would be streaming exclusively on Paramount+, with hopes of it premiering sometimes in 2022.
So far, there's no concrete news of a date or even cast.
The only thing we know for certain is that Kelsey Grammer will once again be reprising the role of Frasier.
Several cast members of Frasier have been asked if they're participating, but so far no one has conferred much of anything, aside from them being aware that it will be happening.
The cultural impact and lasting legacy of Frasier extends well into the future.
It's a bit difficult to describe, so I got some help to explain that.
Hey, this is Hootz from the YouTube channel Little Hoot.
I'm creating a companion video to Jose's on Frasier that's a collaboration with Neil from The Liberal Cook.
In it, Neil and I attempt to suss out Frasier's legacy, and in doing so, we touch on a broad range of topics, including the misogyny of 90s comedy, philosopher Ahana Arendt, TV tropes, and Anita Hill.
It's kind of a wild one, and I hope you enjoy.
It's hard to overstate how well-received Frasier was.
In addition to being a hit with strong ratings throughout its run, Frasier also managed to win 37 Primetime Emmy Awards, the most ever for a completed TV series, until that record was broken by Game of Thrones in 2016.
Kelsey Grammer and David Hyde Pierce both won four Emmys for their respective portrayals of Frasier and Niles, and Frasier won Outstanding Comedy Series five years in a row, a feat only matched by Modern Family.
The series has also spawned a number of home releases, books, and other forms of merchandise over the years.
It's also been playing in heavy syndication as well, letting whole new generations of people discover Frasier, joking and describing how new viewers react to the show, saying,
I think new viewers like the show because, apart from its quality, it doesn't remind them of anything.
No one says, oh, yet another show about two relentlessly highbrow romantically thwarted psychiatrists.
Following the end of Frasier, Kelsey Grammer would go on to be involved in countless TV and film projects over the years, from appearing as beasts in the X-Men movies to being the executive producer of the TV series Girlfriends.
He is still likely best remembered for the 20 years he spent playing Frasier, though he spent even more time, 29 years in fact, playing sideshow Bob on The Simpsons.
And I would be remiss if I didn't also mention that The Simpsons had a number of Frasier references in those episodes, including guest appearances by David Hyde Pierce and John Mahoney.
David Hyde Pierce continued to have a number of TV and film roles, though he tended more towards working on stage, including winning a Tony for his role in the 2007 production of Curtains.
His performances on Frasier were typically noted for how keenly they reacted to the audience, so a career on stage makes perfect sense for Pierce.
John Mahoney appeared in several roles after Frasier, though Martin Crane would always be his signature performance.
Sadly, on February 4th, 2018, Mahoney passed away due to complications from throat cancer.
In an interview, Perry Gilpin told a sweet story about Mahoney.
A few years ago, John took me and my family to dinner in Chicago.
While we were driving back, my husband was texting with Chris Lloyd and read Chris's text out loud.
Please tell the great John Mahoney it was one of the honors of my life to work with him.
I could see a little tear for him in John's eye.
Then my daughter says, Who's John Mahoney?
John almost fell out of the car laughing.
He never took himself too seriously.
Jane Leves continued her career throughout the 2000s after the end of Frasier, eventually finding herself on Hot in Cleveland, which ran for six seasons.
She took some time off of television after that, though eventually returned to the drama series The Resident, which is currently in its fifth season.
Perry Gilpin has been working in film and TV since the end of Frasier and has also built a fairly extensive list of credits doing voiceover work.
She even has the unique distinction of being part of the ill-fated Final Fantasy The Spirits Within.
In addition to Frasier, Moose also appeared in the feature film My Dog Skip once again alongside his son Enzo.
Sadly, on June 22, 2006, Moose passed of natural causes at the age of 15.
Enzo would pass not long after on June 23, 2010, at the age of 14, due to cancer.
Both will be remembered as two of the very best boys.
Class looms heavily in Frasier, often as a barrier from preventing people from making genuine connections.
The very idea of people in the upper class is consistently a source of mockery, but more importantly, it's also demonstrated to be a driver of division and a barrier for loving compassion.
Frasier does a wonderful service by showing us that this excess doesn't make anyone better. It's a social structure that moves us away from one another.
Reflected on the show, David I. Pierce describes how it connects people, saying,
that I no longer think of it as a coincidence, but as part of the show's legacy.
Frasier was a show about connecting through unlikely circumstances, but the circumstances weren't the living arrangements, but the way their social spheres shaped them.
The idea that these barriers can be torn down makes it much easier to laugh together.
No matter how hard the times might get, that's what makes Frasier such an excellent show.
When I made that Cheers retrospective a while ago, I knew it had to be a two-parter, and I knew I would eventually have to speak about Frasier.
Growing up, I didn't really watch Cheers, but I definitely watched Frasier, so revisiting it all these years later was a treat and a reminder of why this show was such a joy to watch in my youth.
It held up surprisingly well, and I think that's a tribute to the writing and performances throughout it.
If you enjoyed this lengthy look back at the show Frasier, do consider becoming a patron or member for this channel.
You'll join all the lovely names you see scrolling up on the screen now, plus you'll get early access to videos in the future.
Patrons also get a little extra say on which series comes next, though I can't make any promises as to which you'll be covering.
Thank you all so much for watching!
