The world is great, it makes me mad, but at least I get to talk about it with Jose.
Every year we have a deluge of conservative non-fiction containing the wisdom of pundits
and politicians alike. Many of these books pop up on bestseller lists, often under suspicious
circumstances, only to vanish a few weeks later. They're marketed as fan merchandise, to be
consumed, though not deeply understood, and they fit neatly into a publishing niche where
some conservative authors put away their long-standing grudges for a chance to make some money.
Here's one example. Candace Owens recently had her book reach the New York Times bestseller list.
Here was her response on Twitter.
So excited about this. I'm officially a New York Times best-selling author.
High five, emojis. And five days later, she had this to say about the New York Times.
It's time for our Department of Justice to begin looking into the New York Times.
Here's a fun fact. This is the tweet that Dave Rubin blocked me for.
I was really just posting two screencaps of tweets he had made, and they read,
The world controls tried to burn it, but failed miserably. Now a New York Times bestseller,
and number one in the political freedom category. And then a bunch of fire emojis.
The second tweet read,
Also, the dirty secret of the publishing world is that the New York Times bestseller list is almost
a total fabrication. It's not based on sales. They have a secret formula. Yes, really.
It's nice to see these conservatives pretend, at least for a brief moment,
that the New York Times is reputable. So long as they can advertise the sales of their own book,
of course. These books have such catchy titles. What's so great about America?
The three C's that make America great. How to destroy America in three easy steps.
Death of a Nation. Adios America. Of the Izing. Stupid black man.
In defense of internment. That's real.
Killing the mob. Killing Crazy Horse. Killing the SS. Killing England. Killing Patton. Killing
Kennedy. Killing Lincoln. Killing the rising sun. Killing Reagan. Killing Jesus. That doesn't work.
Killing the killers. Finally, someone stop them.
These are a tiny fraction of the many books published in the last two decades by conservative
pundits and politicians. Comparatively, you don't see as many by left-wing pundits. For example,
Bill O'Reilly alone has written more books than the entire MSNBC prime time lineup.
Many of these books have a recurring theme. That America is an exceptional nation,
filled with greatness. And there are forces, typically on the left, that want to destroy it.
I wanted to dig into some of these books, so I headed over to my local library and picked
out the first three books in the political science section by conservative authors.
The first was How to Destroy America in Three Easy Steps by Ben Shapiro.
Second was Addicted to Outrage, How Thinking Like a Recovering Addict Can Heal the Country
by Glenn Beck. And the last was Don't Burn This Book, Thinking for Yourself in the Age of Unreason
by Dave Rubin. Let's dive into the knowledge, polemics, and philosophy hidden within the pages
of these books. How to Destroy America in Three Easy Steps is not a great title. The three things
discussed aren't really steps and they are definitely not easy, but before we get to them,
we have to go through some political theory invented by Ben Shapiro himself.
Shapiro splits Americans into two camps, those who want to hold America together,
or as he dubs them, unionists, and those who want to destroy America, who he calls
disintegrationists. Just rolls off the tongue, doesn't it? According to Shapiro, this isn't a
simple left-right divide, as he mentions there are forces on the left and right who can be
disintegrationists, though he spends roughly 95% of the book criticizing the left, with a few pages
thrown in where he complains about Marco Rubio and the alt-right even get a few paragraphs.
When it comes to left-wing forces trying to destroy America, here's one example he offers.
Mario Lopez committed the grave sin of suggesting that it would be dangerous as a parent to determine
based on a three-year-old's gender confusion that the child is indeed suffering from gender
dysphoria, adding, you're just a kid. This was enough to spur e to pressure Lopez for a public
apology, which he duly gave. The man has a family to support. So do we all. This breathless description
of Mario Lopez nearly having his life ruined had me laughing for a solid 15 seconds when I read it.
As if Mario Lopez is one bad take from his family being destitute living on the streets.
And this is representative of a lot of the supposed threats that this book details. Tiny
examples cherry-picked and then exaggerated to an absurd extreme. And some examples are just
flat-out distortions. Here's what one of those looks like. Disintegrationists have categorized
culturally unifying symbols like the American flag as inherently divisive. If America, as a
concept, is polarizing, so too is the flag. These sentences have a citation that will let us know
why Ben is making this very extreme claim. According to the article cited in the book,
this is taken from a new story about Traveler's Rest High School, where the principal banned
bringing the American flag to football games. This was because students were taunting a visiting team
from Berea High School, who were mostly Hispanic, by waving the flags in their face and shouting
things like, go home, leading to confrontations in the stands. Reading the principal's reasoning
hardly sounds like Shapiro's characterization. The principal wrote, using the American flag to
display disrespect or unsportsmanlike behavior is, in itself, improper and disrespectful to our flag.
He's clearly saying that it wasn't the American flag that was divisive. He was upset that the flag
was being used as camouflage for an attack on Hispanic teenagers. A few days later, after a
social media storm, the decision was reversed, although there was no criticism from Shapiro on
the mob justice in action here. Also, if you're curious, all of this took place in the conservative
Greenville County in the very conservative state of South Carolina, which hardly sounds like a
stronghold for the left. In just this little excerpt, we can see that Shapiro has taken a
single incident, lied about the intentions behind it, completely ignored the social media mob when
it worked in his favor, and then extrapolated his straw man to an entire group he's made up.
In other words, it's all a bunch of hot smoke. Now let's get to those three steps to destroy
America. Step one in destroying America is convincing citizens that some people will
have to sacrifice their existing rights in order for others to have new ones.
What a wonderfully vague statement. Luckily, he expands on what he means by
new rights. Saying that society can be improved because children can be molded into literally
anything opens the door to life-or-death fights about what they will be molded into.
It's hard to take Ben seriously when he uses terms such as literally anything,
as if children are being molded into boulders or rainbows. Throughout this book, and in much of his
rhetoric, Ben often characterizes the left in extreme terms to make them sound completely
unreasonable. So if someone is saying, perhaps we should, for example, allow children to have a
broader understanding of what gender means, is turned into literally anything. And when he writes
vaguely like this, he can make his bigotry against, for example, trans people sound like some kind of
high-minded principle. It's the intellectual camouflage for an ignorant and bigoted opinion.
Ben argues quite forcibly that the world is the way it is because of some kind of natural order.
He argues that the philosophy behind the founding of the United States of America,
as espoused in its founding documents, represent an understanding of fundamental human nature,
something Ben never quite defines. That by founding a nation based on this understanding
of human nature, the United States has uniquely organized itself to best allow human life to
flourish by respecting the natural rights of people. And hopefully alarm bells are going off
because even a basic knowledge of American history should reveal how poorly America has respected
the rights of people, but that will be addressed in the third step. Instead, the first is about
asserting the importance of protecting American values. Shapiro goes on. We are not gods and
simply do not have the capacity to rectify imbalances of innate individual qualities.
We don't have the ability to guarantee that even two kids the same age living on the same street
will start from the same point. Two children growing up in the same family don't even start
from the same point. Shapiro is fixated on this idea of inherent differences,
that outcomes can be explained on that basis. You could maybe argue that for individuals,
in that when you see a person who has succeeded greatly in the world, it may be down to some kind
of innate quality that has made success something easier for them. Though, of course, that discounts
how luck can play a role in an individual's life. For example, the luck of being a failed screen
writer who is fashioned into a conservative media figure by a billionaire trying to influence
popular discourse on politics using millions of dollars to create the illusion of talent.
Of course, none of this really matters when we're talking about groups of people. Reducing
disparities to individual choices is a convenient way of ignoring structural and historic forces
that shape our lives and reduce the chances of groups of people to succeed in the world.
Unless the claim is the reason these groups aren't succeeding is because they have all
independently made the same or similar individual choices as if these disparities between two groups
are the reflection of some kind of natural defect. For example, if poor people are naturally
destined to be poor because they are innately incapable of being anything else. Perhaps their
innate intelligence, for instance, isn't high enough to succeed in the world. This, of course,
is the justification of philosophies such as social Darwinism, which say that people's success
in the world is a product of their inherent or natural abilities as opposed to historical or
social forces that shape our lives. Of course, what this argument really does is undermine any
attempt to change society for the better. Most of this book is an argument to keep society the way
it is and avoid any attempt at improving the structures that shape our lives. There are a
few cute moments of hypocrisy in this book, such as one part where Ben Shapiro complains that
Elizabeth Warren was selling billionaire tears mugs. Ben Shapiro, the man who has for years
been selling a tumbler that reads leftist tears. Though if you really want to shame Elizabeth
Warren, accusing her of stealing jokes from Ben Shapiro would be devastating. As always, whenever
we hear Ben Shapiro talking about being personally responsible and succeeding on your own merits,
I very much recommend the Vanity Fair article that details how Ben Shapiro was able to succeed
and become a conservative pundit, not through the strength of his own abilities, but through
the careful craftsmanship of a public media persona through the help of his business partner,
Jeremy Boring, and through the investment of millions of dollars to get his daily wire
operation off the ground. Let's move on to the next step, though. Step two in destroying America
is undermining our culture of rights in favor of a culture of protection by government.
You may have noticed step two doesn't follow step one. Why would you need to create new rights
in step one if you were creating a culture that undermines them? What Shapiro seems to be really
upset by is this expansion of what rights mean, to be anything that he can't effectively tie to
the founding documents of America. And of course, he is exclusively privileging his own interpretation
of those founding documents. In this discussion of rights, I had expected some mention of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights published in 1948 and adopted by the United Nations,
especially considering the American connection of Eleanor Roosevelt. But Ben doesn't really compare
or contrast the American founding documents with anything. He describes the evolution of rights
throughout much of the Enlightenment as leading up to America and that discussion ending with
its founding, as if the American founding documents were so good and everything that's come afterward
simply isn't worth acknowledging. He simply takes what he knows and seems to assume that it is the
best and only version that should be considered. And his evidence for this is the greater material
success of the United States on the world stage. History is simply following a script that was
destined to happen, which leads us to this. The third and final step in destroying America is
convincing citizens that America represents fruit of the poisonous tree, that America was founded
in evil, and that there is no arc to history. To support this very heavy claim, we get a brief
rundown of American history and this gives us a really good understanding of how Ben Shapiro's
worldview is shaped. An honest recount of American history is a very mixed record. The
country that helped fight fascism in World War II is the same one that enslaved millions for nearly
a century. Shapiro acknowledges both sides of the record, but his framing is deeply suspect.
Any and all crimes perpetrated by the American state are waved away as simply being products
of their time, from the genocide of indigenous peoples, being reduced to the norm of nation
states of the day, to slavery being an institution being practiced around the globe. I'm not sure how
this is a defense. If he's trying to imply that we should criticize other countries for doing
similar things, I fully agree. But instead he's using this to shield any direct criticism of
America. This is probably best represented by a quote he uses that comes from Paul Johnson.
Europeans were moving into the former hunting grounds of the world's primitive peoples in five
continents. So when America is engaging in imperialism and seizing lands from indigenous
peoples and waging war on its neighbors, it's acting as Europeans do. But whenever the United
States writes something lovely in its founding documents, that is uniquely American. It's a
highly selective reading of America, designed to emphasize the good as American and the bad as
something foreign or belonging to the wider world. When discussing positive things the United States
has done, such as the aforementioned fighting of fascism, the title sections as those as
Savior of the West, something uniquely American that only this proud noble nation could accomplish,
as if World War II was fought and won solely by the United States. It seems insulting to all the
other nations that participated, but unsurprising as Ben doesn't seem concerned with the histories
of other nations or the broader interactions between them unless it can be used to further
glorify the United States. When discussing more negative aspects of American history,
Shapiro tends to frame them as favorably as possible. Here's one example describing
American westward expansion. Native American population density was, at the time, 0.17 persons
per square mile. The Census Bureau historically considered any area unsettled with a population
density of fewer than two people per square mile. In general, the pioneers were not wrong to
cast their eyes westward, although as we will see this population movement had dire consequences
for Native Americans. Ben doesn't even acknowledge the fact that the Census Bureau justifying
westward expansion of the American state is ridiculously self-serving. He also makes no
mention of the gold rush that sent scores of Americans west, or the concept of manifest
destiny which created a religious justification for the American expansion. Instead, the only
other factors he really mentions are the looming threat of European powers on the continent,
which in many ways reads like the justifications of the day for moving westward, which led to many
wars and the displacement and murder of countless indigenous people. Shapiro also feels the need to
add that inter-tribal warfare was common between Native American tribes, and he spends time
resisting the noble savage trope. And while I can understand wanting to push back against a stereotype
like the noble savage, a better reading of history would be if he instead cast these indigenous
peoples as human beings. In many ways, he seems to want the reader to not feel too sorry for these
indigenous peoples who were slaughtered and had their waves of life destroyed. His overall view
of history is that the bad is commonplace in the world, and even the victims aren't sates. But when
they're as good, it becomes uniquely American. Or as Ben puts it, when we can find injustice within
American history, that is our fault, but that is not America's fault. America was always great,
even if she was never perfect. He constantly refers to the eternal and good values represented
by America, something sacrosanct and unquestionable, and those who do question anything are to be
regarded as disintegrationists trying to destroy the country. It's amazing how little thought went
into this book. It's a collection of facts, often misinterpreted or misleading, and a series of
premises that aren't even a quarter baked. This was obviously produced as a product to be consumed
quickly and without much thought, the sort of thing for fans to buy, not to spark genuine political
discussion. Ironically though, I think it's sincere. This probably is Ben Shapiro trying his best to
write a thoughtful book about history and philosophy. He's just a bad writer and a shallow
thinker. It's perhaps best embodied by this quote here. To most Americans, America is about, and was
always about, the gradual realization of those beautiful promises, rights, and institutions for
all Americans. Perhaps most of us never thought about all that. Perhaps we just saw the flag
flying and felt it, or watched a 4th of July parade and knew it. The book isn't a serious appeal to
any well thought out concept of America, but rather a vindication of feelings of pride one
has when looking at the various symbols of America, a vindication of unthinking patriotism.
Ben Shapiro has done the work of figuring out that America is great and blameless, so those
reading this book don't have to think about it for themselves and continue their lives at
normal, remembering to salute the flag. Those who would say otherwise threaten that complacency,
possibly upsetting the natural order of things and ruining Ben's cushy life. So what Ben offers
in a book like this is a security blanket, an unironic version of that Stephen Colbert book,
America, re-becoming the greatness we never weren't. Let's move on to Glenn Beck's,
addicted to outrage how thinking like a recovering addict can heal the country.
We need a bit of context on Beck before we move forward though. This book was published in 2018,
and in the years leading up to it, Beck had a bit of an identity crisis. He was a never Trump
Republican, and during the 2016 election he tried to rebrand himself as a more moderate voice.
By 2018 he was pivoting again, claiming that he had gotten Trump completely wrong and while he
didn't like him stylistically, he thought he was doing a good job as president. This book is part
of that pivot, reframes outrage in political discourse as a creation of the media, including
himself in his earlier days. But he criticizes himself the same way he criticizes Trump.
His tone isn't great, but he still thinks he was right on the facts.
For those who don't remember some of those facts, here's a quick example.
Nationalists, graft, acorn style organizations, revolution and hidden agenda.
O-L-I-G-A-R-H. One letter is missing.
Why did I select these words? Because acorn selects tides. They all select their words first
and then tie them all together into one word. Oligarch, for quite the one that's missing, is why.
I'm pretty sure oligarchy has a C in there too. But on the substance of this argument,
you may have noticed that the Barack Obama presidency did not plunge America into some
kind of socialist oligarchy. But this exemplifies a lot of what Glenn Beck's Fox News show was all
about, telling us that Democrats are poised to create some kind of socialist hellscape.
These are the supposed facts he stands by. Glenn Beck, in this book, is trying to present
himself as a voice of reason. But he was never a reasonable guy, and he still isn't. And it
has nothing to do with his theatrics. Have I stepped through a wormhole and come out in France?
I mean, I'm not really sure if the... Look, there I am.
Okay, maybe not nothing. But the problem runs a lot deeper than the silly stuff.
Glenn Beck's book is a lot like Ben Shapiro's in that it hits similar notes. Although, to Beck's
credit, he presents a more fact-based reading of history. He goes into far greater detail,
bringing up specific crimes such as the Trail of Tears, where tens of thousands of Indigenous
people were displaced and forced to march west, or the destruction of Tulsa's Black Wall Street,
where a racist mob ransacked an affluent black community, killing many people and destroying
that community's economy. When Glenn Beck gets to the good side of America, it seems thin in
comparison to his chapter covering the bad. Though he weighs it all away with his discussion
about the moral character of America. It's a weird reading of history where, instead of using
it to understand the present, he instead would rather us look at history as a means for us to
sit back and judge the past, to decipher whether America good or America bad. Beck seems to want
us to ignore the past entirely when he writes, it's not what happens to you historically, what
matter is what you do with it now. Unless he's talking about learning lessons from history about
the left, ascending and bringing with it fascism. One example both Beck and Shapiro use to downplay
the impact of historical discrimination is when they compare Asian communities to black ones,
a comparison that is overly reductive as there are many different Asian and black communities
within the United States representing different waves of immigration and different historical
experiences. For example, using the case of Japanese Americans, which Ben Shapiro highlights
specifically, the interment of Japanese Americans during World War II led to the United States
government providing reparations, something that has never been done for black Americans who can
trace their ancestry back to slavery, regardless of what anyone even thinks of reparations. The
point I'm making here is that these two experiences are not the same, and to compare experiences like
these two, as both Glenn Beck and Ben Shapiro do in their books, is misleading. Glenn Beck's book
was also annoying to read as he tries to wrap this veil of respectability around himself still
pushing the same ridiculous talking points he always had been. Great example is how he talks
about climate change. Beck has a long history fighting against any sort of legislative solution
to climate change, and to hear his side of the story, he isn't denying the science, he's simply
concerned about the costs. Reading his book, he almost sounds reasonable when he writes,
I believe that the globe is warming as much as we can trust and verify the trends. Let me accept
the current claim that the world has warned by 0.7 degrees in the last hundred years. I also accept
that man can do significant damage to the planet and has done some damage over the industrial age.
It makes sense to me that belching toxins into the air is not good for any of us, including the
planet and his other inhabitants over time. Aside from some shaky language, that sounds fine.
But less than two pages later, he's saying, when you demand absolute acceptance of your theories
and back up your science with arguments of moral outrage, you end up having to shove, shout, and,
in the end, shoot. And then he goes on to compare climate change to religion and describes one side
as the Spanish Inquisition. This, to me, does not sound like the beginning of a reasonable debate.
This sounds like Glenn Beck is portraying one side as incapable of it. And more importantly,
regardless of what Glenn Beck says about the people who accept broad scientific consensus,
what exactly does he suggest we do about the aspects of climate change he's conceded are true?
Well, in this book he describes having an energy-efficient foam and some other personal measures,
and that's about it. While personal choices and living in a way that's more friendly to the
environment can certainly have an impact, a crisis as big as climate change cannot be solved through
people choosing to reduce their personal emissions alone. Huge polluters, such as the
US military or fossil fuel companies, need to be part of the solution too. When it comes to
policy-based initiatives or some kind of collective action to combat something Beck will ostensibly
say is true, he's far less willing and instead talks about how vague and untrustworthy science
can be. What good does Glenn Beck say he believes in climate change do if he's not willing to fight
for it beyond making a few personal concessions? Beck repeated this pattern in his commentary
about the COVID vaccines. Glenn Beck made a tweet about his opinion on the vaccine with this
charming photograph replacing a syringe with a middle finger. People assumed he was an anti-vaxxer,
so he went on Tucker Carlson's show to explain. I too am not anti-vaccine. I had COVID, my wife
had COVID, everybody in my family had it. I'm not going to get a vaccination because I've already
had it. What he's saying here is wrong. You can get COVID more than once, since the antibodies
don't last forever and a vaccine protects you from more serious symptoms. It also offers a
greater degree of protection against new variants. But more broadly, he's using the same tactic he
uses when he's talking about climate change. Make as many reasonable admissions as possible,
push them aside, and then use a bunch of anti-vaxx talking points. And when you make a good case,
then we'll follow. Make the case. But you can't question it. The problem is, even when he admits
to certain parts of the case, his position doesn't change. And if someone's ultimate
position stays the same, and the only change to their arguments is that they're predicated
by some admissions that ultimately don't change them, they're using those admissions to create
the illusion of carefully considering the evidence. An irony here is that in his book, Glenn Beck
wrote, we're spending our time arguing about the efficacy of vaccinations, a question that was
pretty much settled two centuries ago. So did he believe it was settled then and change his mind
in 2021? In 2009, Beck was fear-mongering about vaccines. If you say, don't take the swine flu
vaccination, and then, you know, it turns out that the swine flu, this particular wave is virulent,
and the vaccination would have helped. Well, then, you know, what role did I play in that?
The opposite is true. I say, hey, everybody take the vaccination. And that turns out to be
deadly? What role did I play in that? So he was skeptical of vaccines, then considered them
settled a few years later, and now he's once again skeptical. Some additional context might
help here. In 2009 and in 2021, these two vaccines were being championed by Barack Obama and Joe
Biden. And when we look at that quote from 2018 in Glenn Beck's book, we have to remember that
the vaccine discourse of the time was criticizing Trump for repeating lies about vaccine-causing
autism. In that context, the quote reads less about affirming the effectiveness of vaccines,
and is instead attempting to get the topic of vaccines out of the public discourse. Beck's
support of vaccination changes depending on who he's attacking and who he's trying to defend.
He'll accept the science, if it's the most effective way to provide cover for someone on
the right, and deny it if it's a part of attacking the left. Much like Ben Shapiro, Glenn Beck talks
about the founding fathers in tones that can only be described as religious. He refers to them
revealing an eternal truth. And then there's this line from the book. The Declaration of
Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights are the most divinely inspired documents,
perhaps of all time. I should remind you all that Glenn Beck is a Christian, and it's my understanding
that the Bible is pretty important to Christians. But Beck's worldview is probably more accurately
depicted in this painting by John McNaughton. One of the funny things about these books is the
complete lack of awareness that they are one part in a long line of human history, and that eventually
the mightiest empires crumble, and another takes its place. And then they get to pretend that they
are the best there ever was, and ever will be. It happened to the Umayyad Caliphate, the Mongol
Empire, and the British Empire, and it'll likely happen to the American Empire one day too. Unless
we all die before that, of course. The real difficulty with someone who has a religious
devotion to their country is that they're not easily challenged, and worse yet, this devotion
can be used to justify all sorts of horrible things. Both Glenn Beck and Ben Shapiro aggressively
argue for American greatness, its exceptionalism, and would sooner ignore the crimes of history to
bask in that glory. The rigidness to their interpretations of what America even means
is part of the problem. When the American government was committing genocide, enslaving
people, and refusing to acknowledge the rights of women and non-white men, this, politicians of
those days, would argue were an accurate interpretation of the foundy documents. Of course,
many people would disagree with that. The lesson of being open to discussion about interpretation
seems obvious to me, but it doesn't seem to have occurred to either Ben Shapiro or Glenn Beck that
they might be wrong in their interpretation. To them, these are divinely inspired records of
eternal truth. That's not a great way to start the conversation or friendly debate these guys
pretend they want to have, and it's telling that their instructions for getting along with them
is outlining the certain types of debates they are not willing to have. I was going to spend some
time laughing at some of the fails Glenn Beck has throughout his book, but if we're going to laugh
at how dumb a book is, there's far more fertile ground in our next volume. Dave Rubins,
don't burn this book thinking for yourself in an age if unreason, is easily the laziest book of
the three I read. If Ben Shapiro and Glenn Beck are bringing their own brand of American exceptionalism
to the masses, Dave Rubin is the blueprint for how to be fooled by that message. Here's an example of
his prose. The left may no longer be liberal, but you're no longer left out. The rest of the book is
of similar quality. Of course, Rubins' project isn't to create an intellectual framework for
believing something. What he's doing, whether he's aware of this or not, is reinforcing a conservative
worldview built on ideas of American exceptionalism. Here's how he opens a chapter. Allow me to open
this chapter with a statement that's wildly controversial and gulag-worthy hate speech.
America is the greatest country in the history of the world. If you're triggered by this, stop
reading. While the second half of that lesson is solid advice, the rest of it isn't triggering
anybody. At best, you might get an eye roll. But what's important is the title of the chapter
that this little passage opens. Stop hating straight white men, America, and Western values.
Rubin is light on details about what Western values mean, and with regard to hating America,
he references some celebrities but doesn't go into detail about how or why they hate America.
As for not hating straight white men, it's an example of how he appeals to identity throughout
this book. Although he claims he's doing it ironically, Dave Rubin is constantly talking
about people's identities in his book. If someone makes a point he agrees with, he has to let you
know that he agrees with them even though they're a cis white male, and if he disagrees, he has to
make a comment about how it's not because they're a woman. Maybe he's just running this particular
attempt at a joke into the ground, but even if he's emphasizing everyone's identity for supposedly
a laugh, how many times does he have to do it until we can safely wonder if he's genuinely
obsessed with identity politics? It reminds me of someone who says they ironically enjoy a song
and are constantly singing or talking about it. At what point does that irony bleed into real
obsession? And sometimes he does the identity shtick in a more nefarious way. One anecdote Rubin
brings up is how at one of his live shows he was confronted by an audience member who was a genuine
Nazi. Rubin then put this Nazi first in line for the Q&A session so they could have a debate about
whether the Holocaust happened. In this discussion, most of the heavy lifting seems to have been done
by Rubin's guest, Michael Shermer, though Rubin pats them both on the back for the civilized debate
about whether or not this obvious historical fact occurred with a bigoted conspiracy theorist.
At no point does Rubin wonder how a Nazi showed up in his audience, and he doesn't explain why he
would choose to debate a Nazi instead of, say, someone on the left who might have been there,
assuming there was anyone from the left at this particular performance. But the truly sinister
part is the paragraph he uses to close the anecdote. One final note on this, it turned out
that the Holocaust-denied woman was transgender. Yes, that's right, a trans Holocaust denier.
Do with that what you will. What exactly does Rubin expect anyone to do with that? Personally,
it means nothing to me. Being trans doesn't disqualify someone from being a hateful conspiracy
theorist, but to an anti-trans bigot, it would be a helpful anecdote to push their own agenda
of discriminating against trans people, presenting them as mentally unbalanced. Rubin must know who
he's serving by bringing up such a meaningless fact. Here's another example of Rubin being
completely ridiculous. First of all, no. We're not an imperialist country. The United States
was literally founded on a pushback against imperialism. If I may have my own, first of all,
I wouldn't reduce the Revolutionary War to a pushback. And second, how can he possibly be
this naive? I would think any political commentator would have some awareness of
American hegemonic influence around the world. There are American military bases in over 70
countries and territories. The U.S. exerts its influence everywhere. But since it doesn't fit
the definition of an imperial power from centuries past, Rubin washes his hands of understanding the
tremendous influence the United States has over many parts of the world, and how that might fit
the definition of imperial. But it's not surprising he doesn't know or bother to know any of that.
Because as I mentioned earlier, the one word that captures this book so well is lazy. Rubin
brings up a number of different topics, sometimes more than once, and often has little to nothing
of value to say about them. At one point in the book, he copies and pastes three pages of supposed
facts from PragerU. When he tries to do his own version of Jordan Peterson's 12 Rules for Life,
he can't even think of 12 and only writes six. In the section where he cites his sources,
he can barely fill three pages. Rubin's final message for the reader, one that
encapsulates his political philosophy, is to go out there and live your life and ignore all the
nonsense. Yes, his version of activism is to chill out and enjoy life. While I fully support Dave
Rubin, or anyone who finds him insightful, to disengage with the political process, he must
realize how his final message is the antithesis of a call to action that a political commentator
would typically make. Dave Rubin is the rube Ben Shapiro and Glenn Beck are selling their American
exceptionalism narrative to, someone who will unthinkingly accept the mythology of American
greatness and then completely disengage from the political process, because there's no reason to
improve on something that's already great. Unless it's to complain about identity politics. While
tacitly endorsing bigotry, of course. The danger of this type of lazy patriotism is that it can
be used to maintain a bad status quo, or be used as a cover for the far right to bring in fascism
under the cloak of patriotism, reducing a country to facet out principles devoid of interpretation
or nuance, and then insisting everyone prostrate themselves by proclaiming an overwhelming love of
the nation via symbols like the anthem and flag, turns political participation into a sporting
event. It's not about making society better, it's about cheering for the home team. And these books
aren't weighty discussions of politics, they're a merch to buy to show your support for the team
you're backing. That is, if anyone is buying these at all. Books by conservative pundits and
politicians regularly appear on the New York Times bestseller list, only with a small caveat
in the shape of a dagger that appears next to them. Here's the New York Times' explanation.
A dagger indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. While not every book by a
conservative pundit has one of these symbols next to it, a large number do. In fact, while looking
through the hardcover non-fiction list, the dagger symbol almost only comes up for books written by
conservative pundits or politicians. In the case of all three books I mentioned in this video,
they debuted on the list with daggers, indicating bulk purchases, and were on the bestseller list
for, at most, three weeks. This isn't exactly a new finding, as it was detailed in an op-ed
written for The Hill referencing a well-known example of Donald Trump's book Triggered,
which reached number one on the list thanks to a $94,800 purchase from the Republican National
Committee. A Vox article describes how appearing on the list can boost sales on average from 13 to
14% or up to 57% for new authors. It also bestows credibility and potentially a higher advance on
future books. An article in Vanity Fair also noted that the former president's son is hardly
the only one benefiting from these bulk purchases. The National Republican Congressional Committee
spent nearly $400,000 on bulk purchases, notably spending nearly $100,000 buying copies of Dan
Crenshaw's Fortitude. In 2015, Ted Cruz used $300,000 in campaign funds to buy copies of one
of his books, A Time for Truth. It's easier to track down the bulk sales of politicians because
groups like the RNC and NRCC need to publicly report their spending. When it comes to pundits,
like the authors highlighted in this video, it gets murkier. Some hypotheses have been floated,
such as bulk purchases being demanded ahead of speaking engagements or book signings.
It's hard to say exactly, and it's not as though people don't purchase books by conservative
pundits. Bill O'Reilly has had plenty of success killing anything with a pulse, but his books tend
to stay on the bestseller lists for months at a time, which seems to reflect a genuine interest
in his work. These other authors, at least the ones I've covered in this video, don't have
nearly the staying power. It reveals a lack of genuine demand for these titles, outside of,
perhaps, a select devoted few. So devoted that apparently they all engage in bulk purchases.
And I don't blame the wider reading public for not caring. These are terrible books. The Dave
Rubin one in particular would be more readable after using it as toilet paper, and the other
two are little more than poor arguments for American exceptionalism. Assuming someone really
is buying these, they would make solid additions to one of the worst libraries of books to ever be
created. So what can we possibly take away from this discussion of three random conservative
non-fiction titles? They seem to be a blueprint on how to disengage with the political process.
To accept that America is great and that anyone trying to change it is actually time to destroy
America. That politics are something we don't need to get particularly passionate about.
It's best to just disengage and remove yourself from the political process,
and let the status quo rumble on completely indifferent to their real world struggle.
Do consider becoming a patron. You can join the lovely name scrolling up the screen
right now, and you'll also get early access to videos and links to my theme song. You get all
of that at the five dollar tier. If you join the one dollar tier, you of course get my thanks,
but also get access to exclusive updates where I let people know what's going on with the next
video. If you'd like to help the channel in a non-monetary fashion, you can like, comment,
and if you haven't already, subscribe, and hit the bell for notifications. Sometimes I do streams,
so hitting that bell to see notifications for community posts is a great way to find out when
those are happening. Thank you everyone for watching.
