In 1993, Boy Meets World debuted, telling the story of Corey Matthews as he navigated
the troubled waters of childhood into adulthood.
Though never a breakout hit, it was a fixture Friday nights, running for seven seasons following
Corey and his friends from middle school to college.
After the show ended, it surprisingly got even more popular through syndication, with
its blend of a classic coming-of-age story and nostalgia for a time when the world seemed
like a much kinder place.
To tell the story of Boy Meets World though, we need to start with the story of TGIF, the
programming block on ABC where Boy Meets World debuted.
ABC had long been a home for comedy on Friday nights, from The Adventures of Ozzy and Harriet
to The Brady Bunch.
In the late 1980s, ABC stood in contrast to rival networks NBC and CBS, which had more
dramatic programming on the evening, so they came up with a promotional hook that would
distinguish them from their rival networks, emphasizing the family-friendly nature of
their comedy lineup.
Bob Iger, president of ABC Entertainment at the time, explained,
A lot of families weren't watching TV together as much as when I was growing up, but I thought,
if we could program shows where parents and kids could watch together, we'd be better
off from a ratings perspective.
It would be named TGIF, which stood for Thank Goodness It's Funny, and more than just a
name, what would connect these shows would be a series of promotional spots where the
cast from each respective program would serve as hosts for the night, as if they were sitting
alongside the audience in their home watching the shows with them.
TGIF debuted in 1989, and its first lineup of shows included Full House, Family Matters,
Perfect Strangers, and Just the Ten of Us.
TGIF was a massive hit, particularly with younger audiences, and part of what made it
so successful is that once a family sat down to watch TGIF, they usually stuck around for
the whole night.
TGIF's lineup would change over the years.
Its earlier years would include shows such as Step by Step and Dinosaurs, and its later
years with Cianad, Hangin' with Mr. Cooper, Sister Sister, and Sabrina the Teenage Witch.
All of these shows had a distinct family-friendly feel, they also featured a number of fun crossovers.
Family Matters, for instance, was already a spin-off of Perfect Strangers, so it was
no surprise to see those characters crossover.
But we would also see Steve Urkel show up on Full House and Step by Step, and Michelle
from Full House would pop up on Hangin' with Mr. Cooper.
While all of these shows deserve their place in discussions about TGIF, there is one show
that embodied the spirit of TGIF, and that show is Boy Meets World.
Although Boy Meets World was not the breakout hit of this night, it was the only long-running
show that debuted and ended as part of the TGIF Friday night lineup.
Boy Meets World was destined to be a TGIF show before it was even an idea.
Series creator Michael Jacobs had been working on Dinosaurs for ABC's TGIF before it was
moved to Wednesday Nights, a move, by the way, Jacobs considers the reason that particular
series only ran for four seasons.
Dinosaurs' big numbers with families on Friday nights motivated Disney to task Jacobs
with developing a show for the 12-14-year-old demographic.
He thought of other family shows such as Family Ties and Growing Pains, which focused on the
oldest childhood of family.
Jacobs had another idea, though.
In an interview, he said,
What if we did a different structure?
What if we took a middle child and instead of focusing on the first date aspect of the
older child, he was looking at it as a betrayal?
Jacobs contacted ABC to find out who they had under contract, and the one kid they had available
was Ben Savage, who at the time was only thought of as the younger brother of Fred Savage,
the current star of the TV series The Wonder Years.
Jacobs and Savage immediately hit it off, and the series quickly took shape.
Jacobs describes the series at its beginning.
What if there's a kid who is an everyman who loses his touchstone, his older brother,
and he's lost and confused in the world?
With the premise established, Jacobs teamed with veteran writer April Kelly to pen the
first episode of the series, and it was soon time to cast the show.
Naturally, Ben Savage would play the lead, Corey Matthews, the middle child of the Matthews
family.
Corey starts the show in sixth grade.
He's an energetic kid who is less than committed to his schoolwork, and happily sits as the
every kid everyone watching was supposed to identify with as he started taking his first
steps into the big world around him.
Apparently, he'd rather listen to the baseball game on the radio than try to understand the
emotional content of Romeo and Juliet.
Mom, I'm a kid!
I don't understand the emotional content of Full House!
William Daniels played George Feeney, or more commonly, Mr. Feeney, and he was based
on a drama teacher Michael Jacobs had had in high school.
Although Daniels expressed reluctance when he was offered the role, he accepted once
he learned that, in spite of his name, the character of Mr. Feeney would not be mocking
teachers but rather demonstrating the profound impact they have on young minds.
Not only Corey's teacher, Mr. Feeney lived next door to the Matthews home, meaning that,
no matter where Corey went, he could never escape his watchful eye or sage advice.
You know, you're not doing your body any favors loading up on junk like that.
Oh, thanks Mr. Feeney, and please enjoy that high-vitamin astronaut drink you're sucking down.
There's no gravity in space, Mr. Matthews, therefore astronauts suck up.
Learn from them.
Corey's older brother, Eric, was played by Will Friedel.
Although Friedel wasn't the first choice for the role, after the pilot was shot, the
role was recast and given to Friedel instead.
Friedel was given the role because he was taller than the first actor, and they didn't
want Corey growing up to be taller than his older brother.
Eric begins the series as the date-obsessed older brother, that over the years he would
become one of the goofier members of the cast.
Like I don't have anything else in my mind but girls.
Look, I got a lot of other things in my mind besides girls.
A lot of other things.
There's like, girl, girl, right there, right there!
Ryder Strong was cast to play Corey's best friend, Sean Hunter.
According to Michael Jacobs, Strong was the first and only boy he considered for the role.
Sean is the rebellious best friend with a troubled home life, in stark contrast to the
more wholesome Matthews household.
Stacey says you should have watched it up 45 minutes ago.
Ahhh!
Stacey says you shouldn't have left it in so long.
Stacey says why didn't you two idiots read the label?
Oh, thanks Stacey.
Lee Norris played class nerd Minkus, a foil and sometimes friend for Corey and Sean.
Minkus would only be around in the first season, though he would have a memorable cameo later
in the series.
You are gonna live in the lap of luxury because I am a provider, babe.
Lily Nixay played Morgan, Corey's younger sister.
The Morgan type character was a staple of the family sitcom, being the adorable little
kid who would come in to deliver a few cute one-liners.
Hey, go to the game with my sister and her doll!
Great!
Maybe during the seventh inning stretch, I could run through the stadium in my old Spider-Man
underwear.
Well, you don't have to dress up for me.
Betsy Randall played Amy, Corey's mother.
Randall at the time had appeared on a handful of other sitcoms, most notably with a recurring
role in Home Improvement.
Amy would provide guidance to all of her kids throughout the series' run.
Let's see, when you have your 20th high school reunion, I'll be...
44th.
Mom, how can that be possible?
You're already...
It's possible.
It's not only possible, it's the way it's going to be.
William Russ played Corey's father, Alan.
Much like the role of Eric, Alan was also recast after a test pilot.
And much like Amy, Alan would provide words of wisdom to his children, often being highlighted
as the male role model for young Corey.
Remember before the children?
Before we were married?
Before we knew each other?
Remember how happy we were?
Although she wasn't a part of the original principal cast, it would be impossible not
to mention the season 1 recurring character, Topanga Lawrence, played by Daniel Fischl.
Taking her name from a canyon in California that Michael Jacobs happened upon while on
a drive, Topanga is a free spirit who is in stark contrast to Corey and Sean.
She would be the love interest for Corey when she joined the principal cast in season 2.
Topanga's triple teamed at the timeline.
She breaks the trap, heads to the top of the key and leaps toward the basket, doing a spiraling
Tomahawk 360!
Slam dunk!
A number of other characters would be introduced throughout the show's run.
But for season 1, these were the characters Corey would be meeting the world alongside.
On September 24th, 1993, Boy Meets World debuted with its pilot episode, creatively titled
Pilot.
This episode's plot used the very example Michael Jacobs referenced when talking about
his idea for the series, with Corey feeling betrayed when Eric takes a date to a baseball
game instead of his younger brother.
Corey's feeling of betrayal manifests into a skepticism towards love in general.
And in a fitting lesson, his class happens to be learning about Romeo and Juliet.
When he accidentally sees Mr. Feeny was stood up for a date, Corey throws that in his teacher's
face as part of his stand against love.
Feeny gives us the first of many speeches where he tries to impart some wisdom to Corey.
When Eric reveals his date was a failure, Corey applies the lesson he learned from Mr.
Feeny and encourages his older brother not to give up on love.
Corey's understanding of the world around him is expanding, and the first lesson in
the pilot is about the power of love.
In other shows, this would be shown by Corey going on a date, but in this case, it's Corey
seeing his brother go on a date and getting a glimpse of Mr. Feeny having a romantic tryst,
even if the salad dinner was actually going to be with his sister.
Rather than experience the world directly, Corey is in the enviable position of getting
a lesson about the world before diving into it.
This is part of the reason Mr. Feeny has such a big role in the series.
Mr. Feeny is teaching these kids lessons about how the world works before they step into
it themselves, much like the kids who would be watching the series at home would be learning
lessons from seeing Corey learn them on TV.
The pilot episode has a heavy emphasis on Corey's home life, but as the series progressed,
the focus would switch more to school and his friends.
The series was still a few episodes from stepping on that path, but we could see how the theme
of learning about the world was still a core of its identity.
The original script for the pilot didn't impress William Daniels.
Speaking in an interview with People.com, Daniels explained,
"...Michael and I are very close.
He likes to tell the story that we had one read-through of the rehearsal and I went to
his office and I quit, and he said, Bill, that was just a read-through.
I said, yeah, but he said, listen to me, I'm going to rework this tonight and you tell
me tomorrow.
If you want to quit, okay, but wait until I revise it.
So the next day, the whole thing, it was different.
He rewrote the damn thing.
So I stayed."
That adaptability, along with a solid premise, gave Boy Meets World a flexibility that allowed
it to change over the years to adapt its theme to new dynamics.
And a few of those new dynamics were introduced very quickly in season one with the key episode,
Corey's Alternative Friends.
In this episode, we're introduced to Topanga.
"- Give me your hand.
Why?
I want to see if our energies converge.
He's vibrationally acceptable."
Whereas Sean is Corey's partner in crime as the average back row slacker, Topanga is
completely unlike Corey.
She's willing to stand out when Corey would rather blend in.
"- People make fun of you, Topanga.
No, I couldn't take it.
I just want to blend in.
Well, you're sure good at it.
You look like all the other plain-wrapped kids at school, except for your red hat.
Hey, I got that on cat night.
I had to wait an hour in line.
Well, if it's important to you, then it's beautiful."
After a hair styling accident, all part of an attempt by Corey to blend in with the other
kids, he learns the importance of being true to one's inner self.
And he also learns the value of his social conscience when he helps Topanga and her friends
create a blockade to keep the school librarian from being replaced.
Corey also finds out that there might be more to him in Topanga than a passing friendship.
"- Sometimes, the reluctant warrior is the bravest warrior.
You're not gonna, like, kiss me now, are you?
Would it be your first kiss?
Hey, don't come near me.
Because it would be interesting if all your life you remembered that your first kiss happened
when you thought you looked weird.
I would have to feel I really knew the person and that I liked him.
Good.
Good."
Although it would be some time before we saw how this romance would play out, it was
here we first got a glimpse of this key relationship, the Corey and Topanga romance.
And while the kiss at the end is probably most remembered by audiences, the small moment
they share at the end of the episode was also sweet.
What makes this relationship interesting is how the power dynamics are inverted.
It might be because of their age or Topanga just generally having a strong will, but it
is at odds with the more traditional stories where the boy makes the first move.
And the broader lesson for Corey here is how someone can enter his life and turn it completely
upside down.
The show may be titled Boy Meets World, but sometimes it's the world that's meeting
the boy.
And while Corey can't control someone such as Topanga, he can control his reaction to
her and use this chance to learn more about himself in the process.
The Topanga character wasn't intended to be a major part of the series, but would be
written into a number of episodes for the first season, one of the producers, Jeff
Manal explains.
When their hands touch, there's a spark.
They had chemistry, the two kids, the actors, so we just kept writing storylines and I think
it progressed as a natural thing.
The episode shifted Boy Meets World more towards school life for Corey and his friends, which
is only natural is that this is the setting where change happens in a young person's
life, a safe staging area for the big changes of the real world.
Another key change in this episode was the role of Sean.
In the first few episodes of this series, we see Corey and Sean with a rotating third
friend.
None of these third kids ever quite worked out, and though a third friend was written
for Corey's alternative friends, the actor who was supposed to play him was fired and
all of his lines were given to Sean.
This created space for what would be another of the show's most important relationships,
the Corey and Sean friendship.
There were still a few rough edges this early in the series.
Sean, for instance, makes reference to a sister we will never hear about again, apparently
an artifact from the lines of the third kid in the episode's original script.
We also get a sense of Sean having a similar middle-class life to Corey, only he's a
bit taller with better hair.
Over time we would learn a lot more about Sean and his unique circumstances, but this
episode was about establishing the close friendship that these two have.
There were a few key episodes in season one that would establish who Sean was as a character.
In Santa's Little Helper, we find out that Sean's father has lost his job.
In addition to the financial strain Sean faces at home, we also find out that Sean has his
tendency to be a bit more rebellious than Corey in the episode titled The Fugitive, where
he blows up a mailbox.
Both of these episodes would establish important parts of the Corey and Sean friendship.
They raise questions for Corey on how to best stand by his friend when he needs support
because of his difficult life, and how best to steer him on the right path when something
goes wrong.
The importance of this friendship reveals that lesson about how to navigate the world
aren't just imparted to kids from wise adults, such as Mr. Feeney, but also learned from
other kids, such as Corey being a positive influence to Sean, and in some ways, Sean
serving as a lesson on what type of behavior to avoid.
As the series is focusing on that journey to adulthood, it's important to ask how
it plots that route out for its characters, and with something as important as raising
the next generation of adults, in its first season, Boy Meets World plays it safe, and
it takes certain assumptions for granted.
The Matthews family lives in a suburban Philadelphia neighborhood.
The kids have their basics met, their school is well-equipped, and they embody typical
American TV sitcom values.
Their major influences in life are their friends, family, and teachers.
And those influences are all within a greater context of an idealized world for those kids
to grow in without facing any traumatic hardships, at least in the first season.
In the episode Model Family, it opens with a clip from the 1950s sitcom Leave it to Beaver.
This episode offers the kids a chance to roleplay the parts of a model family.
The message of the episode is that family lives are complicated and not the tidy package
you see on TV.
Only it doesn't really work as the Matthews family, for all its modern faults, is still
ideal.
The parents are happily married, there's no sign of financial strain, and they generally
all have happy, positive lives.
This is the comfy white middle-class family that the America of the 90s treated pretty
well, at least compared to other families.
Leave it to Beaver and the first season of Boy Meets World are both operated in the same
kind of world, one where certain norms keep the Cleavers and the Matthews from facing
financial ruin or other traumas.
While the writing may have changed, the premise is still the same, asking the question of
how children become adults in the modern American world.
In its first season, the show does very little to question the modern American world, instead
taking its assumption of a comfortable middle-class suburbia for granted.
As an example, in the episode Risky Business, Cory and Sean are tasked with starting a business
and instead bet on a horse race.
Cory and Sean learn the positive impact of risks, though the lesson is turned on its
head when Cory risks leaving Morgan at home alone, and she breaks a window.
And they learn an important lesson about taking risks.
This episode reinforces the American cliché of being a self-starter, with Cory and Sean's
business strategy literally being a gamble.
And the reason it isn't necessarily a bad thing is because it was an amount of money
they could afford to lose.
The irreplaceable Morgan, on the other hand, was a very bad thing to risk.
This raises an interesting question, though.
What about people who can't afford to take risks?
This lesson at a larger scale would mean more than gambling on a horse, it would mean gambling
on yourself and risking personal finance chasing business success.
After all, that was the lesson for the kids, how they would turn a small investment into
a thriving business.
But anyone without the resources to start a business doesn't really have access to
this kind of risk.
Or rather, even if they have those resources, they may not be able to afford to lose them
at all.
It reveals this lesson, which seems universal, to rather be a reflection of the class dynamics
that afford some people that have the means to take risks while others don't.
In this way, the first season of Boy Meets World reveals itself to be a deeply conservative
show, taking the status quo of its world for granted to teach lessons that are less universal
when stepping outside of the bubble it creates.
This isn't to say the show didn't at least make some attempts at making contemporary
critiques.
In the episode, Teachers Bet, Mr. Feeny challenges Corey with teaching the rest of the class
ahead of an upcoming test, with the promise of a nude bike if he can get more kids to
pass the test.
As the class spirals out of control, Corey tries to regain some of it, and he's forced
to learn the material more deeply so he can teach it to his fellow students.
And the class's particular lesson for this week is on discrimination.
Corey struggles, as he's under the assumption that discrimination is a thing of the past,
until something happens to Eric's girlfriend Linda.
When Corey tries to teach the class about discrimination, he uses an unconventional
method.
He calls Sean an anti-Italian racial slur.
The number of kids who passed was the same as last time, so Corey doesn't win the bet,
but that's a pretty good result, considering Corey is just a kid and he apparently teaches
just as well as Mr. Feeny, for one test anyway.
Corey's methods are extreme, and the sort that would only work among kids, as a teacher
using a racial slur on a student would take a different tone.
But it does highlight how the show is willing to acknowledge an issue like prejudice, albeit
from the perspective of a group of characters who are largely only talking about it hypothetically
in a classroom setting.
It also at least introduces us to Linda putting a face to an actual victim of discrimination,
though her guest role wouldn't last more than this episode.
And it speaks volumes that the show had to bring in a whole new character to even have
the means of directly approaching the topic of racial discrimination.
In this way, Boy Meets World was able to tackle an important issue, though its work
is really just in uncovering that truth that discrimination still exists in the modern
day, which is, of course, very valuable to know.
But it doesn't take it much further than that, it doesn't explore where these ideas
come from, the systems that uphold them, or how to undermine them.
Though fair enough, perhaps it's worth stepping back and acknowledging that such a deep dive
in discrimination is a bit too much for an 11 year old.
Episodes such as these reveal the series wasn't afraid of varying away from the silly
or comedic associated with sitcoms that focus on kids, and in the future, the series would
more fully embrace weightier subjects.
The first season of Boy Meets World is a bit of an outlier, clearly geared toward a younger
audience and the only season before the teen years of Cory and his friends.
That may be why it played it so safe, taking a very conventional approach to depicting
the precarious journey from childhood to adulthood.
Later seasons would be far more daring.
Season 2 brought with it a number of major changes.
Most importantly, Cory and his friends would be going to high school, although we wouldn't
be watching all of their high school journeys.
The character Stuart Minkus exited the series after season 1, and he would be replaced by
Topanga.
This wasn't based on a competing spot, though.
At the same time, on Family Matters, the character of Steve Urkel was massively popular.
Minkus was considered too similar to Urkel, and so he was cut from the show.
Season 2 also brought a number of new faces as well.
Cory and Sean were confronted by their first bully, Harley Keiner, played by Danny McNulty,
flanked by his henchmen, Joey, played by Blake Soper, and Frankie, played by Ethan Suppley.
Anthony Tyler Quinn joined the principal cast as the high school English teacher, Jonathan
Turner, a young teacher who adopts a different approach from last year's Mr. Feeney.
This doesn't mean Mr. Feeney would be leaving us, though.
Not only was he transferred to the same school Cory and Sean went to, John Adams High School,
but he would be pulling double duty as both history teacher and school principal.
The cast weren't the only ones changing, though.
The audience was starting to change alongside them.
Michael Jacobs explained in an interview.
At the beginning of the series, Sean, Feeney, and Topango all tested higher than Cory Matthews,
because these were the characters that viewers understood.
You understood Sean immediately.
You understood Topanga as odd and lovely and wonderful.
Feeney was the authority figure.
He tested highest, even with kids, but by the second season, Cory eclipsed everybody.
What happened was, the kids wanted to be Sean and wanted to be Topanga.
They don't want to say they want to be what they are.
Cory became a hero for Beat himself, and everybody flocked to the fact that, wait, I have potential
in just being who I am.
And kids were finally honest enough to answer the question correctly.
Who do I associate with?
I am Cory Matthews.
As the audience found its footing, so did the series, and Boy Meets World began to grow
into a more sophisticated show, speaking to the real issues and concerns facing kids who
no longer saw the series as solely aspirational, but rather something that reflected their
own lives.
And the character of Sean Hunter would serve as a lesson in how things can go wrong.
Although he blew up a mailbox and faced some financial hardship in season one, it's
seasons two and three that really establish how Sean's life differs from Cory's.
Actor Ryder Strong explained his interpretation of Sean in an interview, saying,
Obviously, within the confines of a safe family sitcom, so it's not like Sean was shooting
up or killing people.
While Sean wasn't about to blow up a mailbox every week on the show, he did continue to
engage in some low-level hijinks, like changing the school paper's headline to a solid burn
on Mr. Feeny.
The headline is traced to Cory, who decides to cover for Sean, and the episode is about
not writing out your friend when they do something wrong.
And by something wrong, in this case, they mean something totally awesome.
While Cory is the positive influence keeping Sean from screwing up too badly, the limits
of that are tested as the bullies present an alternative in the episode, Wrong Side
of the Tracks.
Look, I just think you're gonna have a problem if you hang out with guys like that.
Yeah, well they happen to be my kind of guys, okay?
We're part of the same circle.
Look, Sean.
Cory.
Let go.
We find out that Sean believes his own future has already been decided.
Cory, you and I are different, and sooner or later we're gonna end up in different places.
Says who?
Why don't we both just do us a favor right now and call it quits, okay?
What has gotten into you?
You just don't get it, do you?
Get what?
Look at your house, Cory.
Look at where you live.
Look at where I live.
Look at your parents.
Look at my parents.
I know where I'm gonna end up.
Just let me get there now.
Sean!
Just let me get there now!
What's interesting about Sean's turn away from Cory is not that Cory is a bad friend,
as we just saw Cory willing to take the fall for Sean in an earlier episode.
This is about how Sean sees himself, and how he doesn't consider a guy like him good enough
to be friends with a guy like Cory.
Ironically, Sean wants to stop hanging around Cory because he cares enough to not want to
drag him down with the path he assumes he's on.
For all of Cory's work to help his friend, it's not quite enough to steer Sean in the
right direction, as the influence of the bullies increases.
If you're gonna do this, Sean, then I'm gonna do it.
This is not your place, okay?
What are you saying?
I don't belong here?
Yeah, that's what I'm saying.
Look, if you belong here, then I belong here.
Hey, baboon, look, we got some business here, alright?
So I suggest that you walk away while your legs still bend only once.
Listen, Kyle, this is between me and Sean.
Luckily for Sean, and Cory's face, Mr. Turner shows up to talk some sense into Sean.
Can you drag the trailer park trash up the decent society?
Hey, if you don't know that deep down inside, you're alright.
And I haven't taught you anything at all.
You think I'm alright?
I think you need to think you're alright.
You think I'm alright?
I think, if you put your mind to it and get back inside that school, and never, never
go near this Harley, or that Harley.
Yeah, I think you'll be alright.
What was so great about this episode is that it reveals Sean's bad behaviour isn't a
product of some inner drive to be a bad kid, but rather a reflection of how Sean sees himself
through the world around him.
All the jokes and comments about being poor and not getting good grades reinforce the
idea that Sean's not someone who's going to succeed in life.
And as his performance worsens, those messages get louder and louder.
And the only way to break the cycle is for people in his life to show him that he's
worth more than what the world is telling him.
Implicit in this is a condemnation of a society that lets any kid feel lesser than some social
standard because they may not be excelling at school, or they come from a less privileged
background.
Although the series doesn't explore these topics directly in this episode, it does become
more explicit as the show progresses.
And the pensive expression on Mr. Turner's face at the end of the episode reveals that
this issue hasn't been entirely settled.
The two episodes at the end of season 2, Career Day and Home, further emphasize the unfolding
tragedy of Sean's life when his mother runs off with the family's mobile home,
and Chet's father chases after her, leaving Sean behind.
Chet Hunter is played by Blake Clark.
Sean ends up staying with the Matthews family, and we quickly find out that situation is not ideal.
With hospitality wearing thin at the Matthews home, Sean decides to take up Mr. Turner's
offer for a place to stay, and when Sean finds out that his father isn't coming back any
time soon, that offer becomes more permanent.
This episode completes the second season's arc for Mr. Turner and Sean, as the two branch
off into some of their own stories for the third season.
But what's worth highlighting here is how the characters of Mr. Turner and Sean are
wildly different in what they represent in the real world.
Sean's experience is common enough that we could expect to see it in the real world today.
A kid who's told he'll never amount to anything because he's poorer then goes on to
live down to those expectations.
Mr. Turner is a teacher who takes an interest in helping that kid, which does certainly
happen in the real world, though he goes a lot farther than you would normally see, going
so far as to open his home to this kid so he'll have a safe place to stay.
When Sean's circumstances start getting bad, it's this extraordinarily uncommon
step that keeps him from running away into the unknown, away even from his friend Cory
and what little security he might have with the Matthews.
The contrast here reveals that Sean's ordinary life, with the destiny of failure
impressed upon him by society, requires extraordinary effort from a teacher to fix.
And what about the kids who aren't as lucky as Sean to have a teacher like Mr. Turner,
or even a friend like Cory?
The relationship between Sean and Mr. Turner continues to be explored in the third season
as the two bond.
We even get sweet moments like these where Sean tries to run away for the third time in the series.
By the end of the third season, it appeared as though Mr. Turner was finally going to
adopt Sean, but Sean can't turn his back on his father, and the two of them run style
and move back to the trailer park.
And so, the Mr. Turner experiment, at least when it came to taking care of Sean, came
to an end.
But there was more to the Mr. Turner character than taking care of Sean.
When he was first introduced in season 2, he also asked it as a foil to the more traditional
Mr. Feeney.
The season 2 premiere helped establish that dynamic in this moment.
This exchange raises an interesting question.
What is the best way to improve a person's understanding of the world?
Do we go to them on their own level, or do we demand that they come up to ours?
If you start low, you might not provide them with the supports they can pull themselves
up higher, but if you start high, they might not try to reach up at all.
One of the more interesting clashes between Mr. Feeney and Mr. Turner is in the episode
Wake Up, Little Cory, where Mr. Turner assigns his class to videotape each other talking
about love and sex.
Cory and Topanga partner up for this assignment.
After telling their parents they're staying at each other's homes, Cory and Topanga
spend the whole night editing footage at school, and then they fall asleep together, only to
be discovered later on.
Cory soon becomes a legend at school.
On the other hand, Topanga's reputation is not so esteemed.
Meanwhile the two teachers discuss the fallout.
Cory then cuts together a version of their assignment that's more about love and sex,
and includes a confession from him.
Cory and Topanga make up, but also important is how Mr. Feeney admits he might have been
wrong.
What makes this dynamic particularly interesting is that both teachers have a point.
The assignment did spiral out of control, and for a little while it made Topanga's
life horrible, but it was also in that diversity that Cory was able to rise to the occasion,
though it seems a bit unfair for him to have learned a lesson at the expense of someone
else.
It did reveal an important gender dynamic when it comes to sex and gossip, though, and
how it benefits the boys while hurting the girls, and that it was the side in power that
needed to learn the lesson, not the side that's victimized.
But above all the lessons learned in this episode, what caught my eye was how the clashing
styles of Mr. Feeney and Mr. Turner reveal that neither one is entirely right.
Mr. Turner overestimated how well the kids would handle talking about sex, and Mr. Feeney
underestimated them.
In these seasons, the series is very much about replacing the idea of the always wise
and unerring Mr. Feeney with an alternative to that style of teaching, suggesting that
it's not that kids can only learn through classic methods, but also the question on
how to educate kids is a negotiation between old and new techniques, ideally finding the
optimal may of moving forward by experimenting with what new stuff might work while holding
onto the old stuff that still does.
This episode also marks part of the small drift Cory and Topanga had towards one another
throughout the second season.
It wouldn't be happening all at once, but series creator Michael Jacobs explained this
was an idea he had early on.
I thought, what's going to happen with this boy confused by life?
What would be the stabilizing influences?
And I thought he would want to discover and find love forever, and we pretty much decided
early on that, wouldn't it be great if we could do a show about a kid who knew what
he wanted?
Fell in absolute love with somebody, and against every conceivable storyline we could come
up, they would make it work.
And that was something that we wanted early on.
The second season's second episode, pairing off, introduces the world of dating to the
series, and it would be a major focal point for the rest of its run.
It also signified that this show would be growing up alongside its characters and its
audience.
Topanga, my girl, my friend, my girly friend, believe me, I don't want this any more than
you do, but everybody around here is pairing off, and I think you and I should spare ourselves
a lot of uncoolness and walk through life together.
Cory and Topanga aren't quite ready to be a thing just yet.
Cory, when guys and girls go out, first they fall passionately in love, then after a week
they hate each other, so for one great passionate week we lose a friendship that could last
a lifetime.
I'm in if you are.
Cory, don't worry, I'm sure there's someone out there for you.
Give me a name!
Cory steps out in the world and has a few dates with other girls, though none of them lasts
for very long.
Although maybe he should have worked on his fashion sense a bit more, I'm not sure the
plaid shirt on top of another plaid shirt on top of a third shirt was really working
for him.
But while these other girls give Cory a taste of dating life, he's consistently drawn closer
to Topanga.
And it's in season 3 that we see Cory and Topanga get closer in the episode by best
friend's girl, where Shawn decides to push things along.
Driven by jealousy, Cory finally asks out Topanga.
And of course Cory and Shawn remain bros.
As the Cory and Topanga relationship develops, we learn more about their history with one
another.
Cory and Topanga's history before the start of the show changes throughout the years,
but more important than the messy continuity is how these changing stories establish their
deep romantic connection, presenting young love as something eternally true.
A love story like this sticks out like a sore thumb, particularly in the present day
where most relationships have traded romanticism for realism.
It's probably here that the series feels most unreal, although it's done in a way
that isn't quite as simple as the fairy tale it's often remembered as.
Aside from Cory and Topanga needing two seasons to even start dating, they break up very quickly,
11 episodes later, and the grass is always greener.
It would be another 9 episodes before we see them reconcile when they go to Disney
World in The Happiest Show on Earth.
A cynical reading of an episode like this would be how Cory and Topanga are meant to
be together in so far that they are brought together by the corporate-fix simile of magic.
The needs for sitcom romances to end happily, and they reconcile in another corporate-fix
simile of magic, Disney World.
But I think it would be unfair to write this romance off entirely.
It took Cory and Topanga nearly two seasons to reach this point after all, struggling
to come to terms with their feelings and then making an effort to stay together.
And this would hardly be the storybook ending for the couple as they had more challenges
to come in the future.
The romanticism of this pairing confronts the harsh reality of the real world.
It's a small example of how idealism can survive the crushing weight of the cynical
world, but only if the people involved are willing to do the work to stay together.
And far from being perfect, they stumble and fall along the way.
That's what helps make this couple feel relatable.
They represent the good of the old that overcomes the challenges of the new.
The idea that love, when it's real, can overcome anything so long as you don't give
up on it.
A few notes before leaving these seasons.
There were several changes to the cast.
When the character Harley exits the series, he's briefly replaced by Adam Scott as Griff.
Griff wouldn't last long, and the bullies would be phased out of the series in later
seasons.
Season 3 also introduced the character Eli Williams to the principal cast, played by
Alex Dazer.
He was a friend of Mr. Turner and briefly a teacher at John Adams High School.
Though with Mr. Turner playing less of a role in Season 4, his friend exited the series
entirely at the end of Season 3.
The biggest departure was saying goodbye to the original Morgan in Season 2.
Lily Nixay was not terribly happy being on the show, so it was decided she would leave.
She would be replaced halfway through Season 3 by Lindsay Ridgeway.
As for why we didn't see Morgan for so long, she explained that it was a very long
time out.
And later in Season 3, we find out why she got that time out.
As Boy Meets World matured, so too did the type of stories it told.
The simpler ideas of listening to your teacher in the first season gave way to more complicated
relationships with authority in the second and third.
And through the character of Sean, class dynamics and expectations began to make their way through
the safe middle-class bubble we had first met him in.
In Season 4 and 5, this became increasingly more pronounced.
In particular, as more of Sean's family became part of the story.
With Mr. Turner out and Chet Hunter in, as Sean's father figure, we get a better sense
of where Sean came from and how that shaped him.
In Fishing for Verna, we meet Sean's mother Verna, played by Shireen Mitchell, ready to
try being a family again with the Hunter men.
Chet tries to be a better father by getting a stable job as the school janitor.
Sean is eventually drawn into a fight with a kid mocking his father.
When Sean makes a trip to the principal's office, Mr. Feeny offers to fire Chet, knowing
Sean would eventually realize he doesn't want to take away his father's first steady
paycheck.
In addition to Sean learning an important lesson, what was particularly nice about this
episode was featuring someone working a janitorial job who doesn't, and shouldn't, feel any
shame about it.
That may not have been the best dad, but in the fourth season, he makes an effort to
be better, and that happens to start with working a job to support his family.
And it serves as a reminder that people's lives can take a number of turns for a variety
of reasons, whether it be a few bad choices or just some bad luck.
It doesn't matter nearly as much as treating them with respect and acknowledging the hard
work they do.
This job isn't a punishment for Chet's mistakes, but an opportunity to start making
things right.
It also shows us that these are people with lives and families who take some pride in
enjoying their work.
The episode where Verna returned similarly took a moment to acknowledge the school cafeteria
lunch server as well, revealing how the Hunter family is strongly connected to working class
characters.
Although these are small gestures in the grand scheme of things, they are appreciated nonetheless.
Sean's family also offers a glimpse into more class dynamics when his parents depart,
and in the fifth season we meet Sean's half-brother, Jack, played by Matthew Lawrence.
Jack is not to be confused with Sean's other brother Eddie, who we briefly meet and then
never hear about again in the season 3 episode, The Pink Flamingo Kid.
Jack joins Boy Meets World in season 5 opener, Brothers, whereas Sean grew up in poverty
with their father, Jack lived comfortably with his mother and her new husband.
Although they have trouble getting along because of their time apart, they do at least partially
reconcile by the end of the episode and move in together as Chet takes off once again.
And their other roommate is Cory's brother Eric.
Throughout the series, Jack's posh upbringing would create a divide between the two and
serve as a constant reminder of where these two characters came from.
Michael Jacobs explained the decision to include Jack in an interview saying,
"...Tony's character and Alex Dazer, who played Eli Williams, all of these wonderful
teachers were very beneficial to us, but it was always a coming-of-age comedy, and these
teachers had long since come-of-age.
But we felt that where the magnifying glass needed to be was on the generation that was
coming-of-age, and that's why we added Jack."
Over time, we would see less of these class dynamics as part of Sean's stories, as another
plotline would dominate his stories in later seasons, and Jack would appear more often
in stories with Eric.
But in these seasons, it was established that in the comfy middle-class space of Boy Meets
World, Sean would sometimes take the role of an outsider, his lower-class past and absent
parents reminding him that he doesn't quite fit in.
Another important addition to Sean's side of the stories was the arrival of Angela Moore,
played by Trina McGee.
Although just a random student in her first appearance, she would play a much bigger role
in the episode, I Love You Donna Karen, where Sean, growing dissatisfied with his two-week
limit dating life, falls for the owner of a lost purse.
"- And what if it's not as good as what I have now?"
"- With a purse?"
"- Just draw a bit, Corey.
Listen, what are you so afraid of?"
"- I'm afraid of getting hurt, okay?
I mean, I've seen the pain on my father's face every time a woman walks out because
he's not good enough."
"- Sean, you are not your father."
Sean later finds out the items in the purse belong to Angela, who he had just broken up
with, and he's suddenly filled with regrets.
And after a bit of back and forth on the subject, the two eventually begin dating once again,
only this time for longer than two weeks.
The relationship would be a part of the rest of season five, but it was later seasons that
we would more fully explore this dynamic.
As the series matured, it began tackling bigger social issues, so much so that a number of
episodes would be devoted to challenging topics.
In the episode, Dangerous Secret, Corey suspects Sean is hooking up with Claire, a girl in
her class, only to find out that Claire has been staying with Sean to get away from her
abusive father.
"- Okay, Claire and I aren't doing anything.
We never have.
The reason she's been staying at my place, her dad hits her.
What do you mean he hits her?
At night sometimes.
He yells a lot and beats her up."
Claire fears her father is untouchable, as he happens to be a bank vice president.
And even though the episode ends with Claire going to the police, it only holds the vague
hope that something might improve with her father going to therapy.
The story related back to the main cast in a more roundabout way.
When Corey thought Sean was having sex, he started pushing that line with Topanga, only
to realize he shouldn't base his decision on social pressure, but instead on whether
he and Topanga were both ready.
In cult fiction, feeling disconnected from the world, Sean decides to join a cult.
"- Do you believe in a mother and a father?
And a comfortable house and a comfortable street?
Because that's what you have?
Well, I don't have that.
So I found something with these people.
Yeah, but who are these people?
Stop trying to take away what I have.
I don't do that to you."
Eventually, when Mr. Turner is in a motorcycle accident, Corey talks some sense into Sean.
"- Turner took care of you.
He loves you.
And you love him.
Is that real?
Or are Mr. Mack in the center real?
You decide, but you cannot go."
This episode hits on the familiar Sean theme of feeling disconnected from the world and
the need for a home.
This episode is also, weirdly, the last time we see Mr. Turner in Boy Meets World.
And in If You Can't Be With The One You Love, Sean develops a drinking problem.
"- Nobody's listening to me, okay?
I drink this stuff because I like it.
It makes me feel good.
Hello?
Hello?
Is this thing on?
I have no problem."
"- Okay, maybe we don't have to talk about this in front of everybody.
Let's just go out into the hall-"
"- Go."
"- I don't like that you drink.
Call me when you don't."
Aside from one relapse in a later season, Sean's alcoholism is largely wrapped up in this episode.
Most sitcoms have a small collection of very special episodes.
Very special episodes being particularly dramatic episodes that tackle social issues.
But Boy Meets World seemed to have multiple very special episodes every season.
For a family sitcom, it very aggressively went after these serious topics.
I might speak to why it continued to resonate over the years.
Boy Meets World did have a tendency to wrap these stories up a bit quickly.
Sean joining an escaping occult really leaps to mind as I wonder how such a traumatic event
could be encapsulated in a little over 20 minutes.
It's helped by playing to common themes of the character, but it still feels like
a stretch.
What these episodes reveal are a lot of good intentions beyond the capacity of a 20-minute
family sitcom, even one that's relatively well put together like Boy Meets World.
It also reveals the limitations of its themes.
Unless the problem was simple and relatable, it didn't fit the format particularly well
and the ones that reached across multiple episodes tended to be more broad and less
specific than a drinking disorder.
It's also worth thinking about how these series began with the idea of school and other
places being safe staging grounds for these short lessons.
If these traumas persisted, it would change the tone of the show and make Boy Meets World
a very different experience, one that might have been too intense for its younger audience,
meaning they wouldn't see depictions of these issues at all.
There is no right or wrong answer in the best approach to very special episodes, just varying
degrees of success or failure based on the premise, characters, and theme a show has
to work with.
In these seasons, the show also started to drift towards more high-concept episodes,
that is, single episodes with a unique premise that allow the characters to be placed in
some strange contexts.
An early example from season 3 is I Was a Teenage Spy, where Cory is shocked by a microwave
and sent back to the 1950s.
Do me a favor, would ya?
Anything you want.
Would ya look at me that way I don't like?
I thought you said it scared you.
It does.
It was a cute episode that foreshadowed Cory and Topanga getting back together during their
third season breakup.
In season 4's Sixteen Candles and Four Hundred Pound Men, Cory and Sean offer advice to Frankie
to better connect with his father, who happens to be WWF slash WWE wrestler Vader.
And they end up at a wrestling match.
And in Eric Hollywood, Eric is invited to join the cast of a sitcom called Kid Gets
Acquainted with Universe, where he meets a fictionalized version of the cast of the
show.
But the most popular high-concept episode of the series, and maybe the most popular episode
of the series, is season 5's And Then There Was Sean.
Loosely inspired by the Scream movies, this episode sees everyone trapped in the school
at night, with the murderer slowly picking them off, while Sean recounts various horror
movie tropes.
The episode isn't just unique in its premise, it's also shot to look more like a horror
movie.
With camera angles and movements you wouldn't usually see in a sitcom, it even had the gall
to murder Mr. Feeney.
The episode does a great job of playing with horror movie tropes and delivering some solid
jokes.
It also included a special guest appearance from Jennifer Love Hewitt, who was seen in
I Know What You Did Last Summer a few months prior.
The episode was notoriously difficult to film because the cast broke down laughing for hours
at a time, but in spite of those difficulties, the finished product came together so well
that it became a fan favorite.
Part of the reason for Boy Meets World's success, and why the show is so often able
to take these kinds of chances, was because of its below-the-radar status.
Michael Jacobs was fairly protective of his show, and the network, rather than deal with
lengthy conversations about what the show was doing, let him do as he pleased so long
as the numbers were stable.
Ryder Strong describes how that influenced the audience.
When we stepped out of the box with an episode like this, it kind of felt like we were in
our own little corner of the playground, and no one was paying attention.
Which means, in a way, we were thumbing our nose at expanding our audience, and by definition,
building a cult following.
Even though, and then there was Sean was a bit of fun, it's still connected back to
one of the main through lines of the series in an important way.
By the end of the episode, the whole experience is revealed to be a bad dream of Sean's,
though in the dream, the killer is revealed to be Sean himself.
As for why he's killing his friends, it's revealed in this moment.
Why are you doing this to us?
Sean is tearing the world apart because he can't stand that Cory and Topanga have broken
up again.
Yes, broken up again, and that's as good a transition as any to give us a brief rundown
of what the fated couple of Cory and Topanga were doing in seasons 4 and 5.
At the end of season 3, our happy couple was still together, but they started facing
more hardships, part of the way through season 4.
In the two-parter, A Long Walk to Pittsburgh, Topanga is devastated to learn that her family
is moving from Philadelphia to Pittsburgh, putting her relationship with Cory in jeopardy.
Okay, I don't care if I have to walk to Pittsburgh, nothing is going to come between us, alright?
We're going to be together for the rest of our lives.
Okay.
So there.
Cory's refusal to acknowledge the truth is tough to watch.
We're leaving for Pittsburgh.
No, you're not moving because we're supposed to be together like we've always talked about,
so you can't move.
Because we don't deserve that kind of pain.
Cory, will you just give me a hug and a kiss and say goodbye to me?
No.
Goodbye, Cory.
I love you.
As the weeks drag on and Cory's loved ones try to help him move on, he gets increasingly
frustrated not hearing from Topanga, and he's about ready to give up.
I'm sure you'll be real happy to know that I'm not going to go to Pittsburgh, okay?
Why not?
You and Topanga have a fight?
No, no fight.
I just realized that I'm the one making all the phone calls, I'm the one writing all
the letters, but I will not be the one who travels 300 miles to be rejected and look
like a fool.
So if life doesn't want me and Topanga together, then you can't fight life, can you?
Cory.
Amy.
This might be my favorite moment in the whole series.
Part of it is the reaction from the audience, and part of it is seeing how passionate young
love can be.
Topanga has run away from home, and even though Cory's parents aren't thrilled,
he offers his own definition of loved in an effort to keep them together.
When I'm better because she's here, now she won't be.
In other shows, this wouldn't be working.
It's so sweet, it's practically dripping honey.
But somehow Boy Meets World manages to walk this line without falling on its face.
It does require the audience to be willing to believe in Cory and Topanga, believe in
the idea of young love being something special that can last the test of time.
This feeling is only underscored when Topanga's aunt Prudence arrives, as she is played by
Olivia Hussie, who famously played Juliette, in 1968, Franco Ziffirelli's film adaptation
of Romeo and Juliette.
It's Topanga's aunt who offers her a place to stay in Philadelphia so she can spend
her last year of high school in the place she's familiar with, among her friends,
and most importantly, with Cory.
This might have been the best episode for the Cory and Topanga relationship, even though
it's complete fantasy, unbearably sentimental, and still somehow works.
It's the comfort you don't get with the more cynical TV that was popularized in later
years.
Maybe this is why it's such a strong symbol of youth and nostalgia, when we believe true
life could happen at 16, and nothing was more important than being with the person you cared
the most about.
Cory and Topanga are see-sawing between fantasy and reality, and after a bit of fantasy in
season 4, it would swing back to reality in season 5.
In Heartbreak Cory, the senior class goes on a ski trip to Mount Sun Lodge, where Cory
sprains his ankle getting off the bus, leaving him at the lodge while everyone else goes
skiing.
Keeping him company is Lauren, played by Linda Cardellini, an employee at the lodge.
Cory ends up talking with Lauren throughout the night, and on the next day lies about
his ankle still being sore, so he's once again trapped at the lodge.
With Lauren.
I wasn't expecting you, but sometimes people take you by surprise.
Cory tells the truth to Topanga about having spent the night talking to Lauren, but he
leaves out the part about the kiss.
Cory says goodbye to Lauren, though she leaves him with a letter, which Topanga finds at
the end of the episode.
Topanga confronts Cory about the letter in the next episode, and in the episode after
that one, torn between two lovers, feeling like a fool, Lauren shows up in Philadelphia.
Topanga tells Cory that if he isn't 100% sure about the two of them, he should spend
some time with Lauren.
So he does, and he spends the day talking to Lauren.
Later on, Cory makes his decision.
I like Lauren.
I like spending time with her.
But I can live without her.
I can't live without Topanga.
It's no contest.
And then he talks to Topanga about the experience.
Cory, I can't see you anymore.
What?
Do you have any idea how many guys sit on me?
What are you talking about?
I never needed to test my feelings for you.
I moved away from my parents in Pittsburgh to be close to you, but that you needed to
see her to test how you felt about me.
I don't forgive you for that, Cory.
No.
No.
You told me to see her, Topanga.
You told me to see how I felt.
And you listened.
It's going to be okay.
No, I won't.
What made this breakup so powerful was that it was a slow build over three episodes.
A couple like Cory and Topanga can't end things with a single fight.
It took time, and a series of bad choices, and when it ends, it feels like a real ending.
This is the episode that proceeded, and then there was Sean.
Episodes like these are in stark contrast to the more idyllic ones where Topanga goes
to Cory in the rain, or the heartfelt moment in Topanga's room.
It's a reminder that even supposedly perfect relationships are a lot of work, and that
it's better to be honest than hide something from your partner.
It'll also reflect how the series has changed the lessons it was teaching, moving from stories
about fitting into the wider world to how people fit into each other's lives.
And the lessons are getting more complex and messy.
That's why the stories have drifted away from the nice, tidy lessons learned at the
close of each episode to lingering doubts and confusion.
It reflects how some parts of the world aren't so easily learned from a speech delivered
by Mr. Feeney.
But the Cory and Topanga story didn't end here.
In Story Night, Topanga meets a guy named Ricky, played by Jonathan Jackson, and is
taken by his deep love of art.
Unsure of whether or not she's ready to move on, she tries taking Cory to see Van Gogh's
story night to get his impression of the piece.
Topanga isn't satisfied with Cory's answer.
Topanga decides to go out with Ricky, and when they kiss, she learns something.
And
all that's left is for them to get back together.
With Cory and Topanga reconciled, the rest of the season will supposedly play out just
fine until they're faced with one more challenge.
When things change, Topanga's offers a spot at Yale, which dashed the plans she's made
with Cory to attend Penbrook University together.
Cory tells Topanga she should take the chance to go to Yale.
And in the season 5 finale, Graduation, Cory and his friends prepare to end their high
school lives, and we get a cute cameo for Minkus.
More importantly, though, we find out what Topanga's decision is regarding Yale.
As far as sitcom cliffhangers go, the unanswered proposal is a classic.
And had this couple not just been put through the wringer for the last 10 episodes, it might
have felt like it was coming out of nowhere.
But in this case, it felt entirely natural.
Part of that reason is because Cory and Topanga's relationship has always been too idyllic,
so said in a romantic fantasy that it was hard to take seriously.
But in seasons 4 and 5, it started to feel more real.
The challenges were more difficult, and the answers were less obvious or certain.
These were the seasons that pulled that relationship into the real world, to test its ability to
survive.
And after going through some tough trials, it proved that it was the real thing.
But this is a relationship built on an amorphous past, one that seemed destined.
But the only reason it was destined is because of the traditional sentimentality that went
into making the show.
Boy Meets World is a very earnest series, not shined away from sensitive issues or social
commentary.
But at its heart, it's still a very traditional family sitcom.
It has one foot in the present and another in the past.
The show itself manifests this in the dynamic between Mr. Feeny and Mr. Turner in season
2.
This show is about how children become adults, and the forces of constancy and change that
shape them.
And in this maelstrom of forces, Cory and Topanga make it through, with their romanticized
version of love staying intact, now hardened by the harsh winds of reality.
And ultimately, this might be the perfect symbol as to why this show became such a
comforting favorite.
Because it tells you that through all the noise and fury, so long as you really work
at it, everything is going to be okay.
To then keep everyone hanging, let's make one thing perfectly clear.
Here is Cory's answer to Topanga's proposal.
That's a yes, by the way.
While I tease a quick wedding afterwards, ultimately Cory and Topanga decide to have
a long engagement instead.
There are plenty of other changes in store for the cast in these final two seasons, aside
from the impending nuptials.
Most obviously, we see Cory, Topanga, Sean, and Angela all heading off to Penbrook University.
Cory and Sean become roommates in their dorm while Topanga and Angela do the same in their
dorm.
And this might be a good time to look at some of the other characters that are joining at
Penbrook.
In the last five seasons, Eric Matthews has gone through a bit of a transformation.
In earlier seasons, he was the cool order brother who always had a new date every week,
but as the seasons progressed, that changed as the character became increasingly more
silly.
According to Will Friedle, the first sign of this was in the first season, when he got
the chance to be in a scene with William Daniels.
And he had to think of a funny way of throwing down a bag of fertilizer.
The lesson learned was to always go big in comedy, and over the years we would see Eric
going further and further over the top.
One fan theory as to why this is happening is because the series is told through the
eyes of Cory, and part of growing up is seeing your cool, hip, older brother for the goofball
he really is.
And while I would never rob someone of their interpretation, according to Friedle, behind
the scenes it was about the writers and Will Friedle challenging each other to get increasingly
ridiculous with the character, making him more akin to Friedle in real life, albeit
amped up some.
So in the final seasons, he would be completely off the wall, like coughing out winning lottery
numbers or disguising himself as a couch, but Eric not always being a perfect fit in
the Cory, Shawn, Topanga, and eventually Angela dynamic.
Eric was given his own supporting cast, first with the arrival of Shawn's brother Jack,
who became Eric's roommate, along with Shawn, and then in season 6, when Shawn moved out,
a new roommate replaced him, Rachel McGuire, played by Maitland Ward.
Michael Jacobs explains this evolution.
We knew that Eric was succeeding beautifully as a character, but we also knew that Eric
only involved with Shawn and Cory seemed odd.
We knew that what Eric really needed was something to play off of, and Matthew Lawrence was available
and it was a no-brainer to me.
And we put them together and then decided to add Maitland Ward, and all of a sudden
we had these wonderful secondary stories.
The typical dynamic here was Eric and Jack fighting over the beautiful Rachel, though
ultimately it was Jack who got the upper hand because it was funnier to see Eric fail.
Many of the beeplaws were basic stories and thinly-veiled excuses to give Will Friedel
something funny to do on camera.
Occasionally we would see Eric in some more mysterious stories, such as when he nearly
adopted a young boy named Tommy he was mentoring.
But generally speaking, Eric's stories were fun college adventures.
What Eric best represents, though, is the persistence of friendship.
Although his friendships with Jack and Rachel aren't as pronounced as, say, the Cory and
Shawn friendship, Eric is unusually talented when it comes to understanding people and
friendships.
As a 7-2 parter, the first episode titled The War, we see the bonds of this group tested
during a series of increasingly harsh pranks – Jack, Rachel, and Angela make up one team
with Cory, Shawn, and Topanga on the other team.
Eric is left out because no one wants him on their team.
Eventually, things get taken too far when Cory and Shawn put up a revealing picture
of Rachel in the Student Union.
The prank war turns into a fight, and Cory makes an unfortunate comment.
And things ripple out from there.
Eric tries to make peace between everyone, and then finds out the truth.
In the second part, titled Seven the Hard Way, Eric puts aside his bruised ego to work
with Mr. Feeny to try and mend these broken friendships.
Even the closest to friends, Cory and Shawn, might not be able to hold it together.
The episode flashes forward seven years to Mr. Feeny's retirement party to reveal that
this fight shattered the group.
And then Eric arrives.
And Plays with Squirrels has some words of wisdom.
When the episode goes back to the present day, it moves to a few moments after Rachel
is left, and Eric drags her back to read those same words of wisdom.
And it inspires everyone to reconcile.
Although Eric can never escape being the goofball, he holds together people much in
the same way he holds together the series itself.
If Boy Meets World was a series of tragedies, the characters would likely not be able to
keep their connection to one another, and the series itself could never maintain its
premise as a family-friendly sitcom.
Eric is the glue for all of these things, providing consistent comedic relief, and also
providing the wisdom needed to hold these characters together in the context of the
show.
For all the troubles that visit these characters, Eric is the Oasis in the Desert, a place to
enjoy a break from the heat, and he's an oasis for characters and audiences alike.
And in that calm, a simple truth can come from an unexpected place.
A character like Eric is particularly necessary when Boy Meets World gets heavy, and the heaviest
season was, almost certainly, season 6.
When Sean and Jack's father Chet returns in the episode, We'll Have a Good Time Then,
he announces that this time, he's staying for good.
From now on, there'll be lots and lots of time for us to play in pool.
So you're really staying for good?
That's the plan, son.
Sean is skeptical that Chet is going to be a run for the long haul, and in many ways
sees himself in Chet's lack of commitment.
Chet doesn't get the chance to prove himself, though, as he soon has a heart attack.
Sean and Jack don't handle it particularly well.
Sean and Chet do get a moment to reconcile, though.
But sadly, it's a little too late to make things right, as Chet has a second heart attack
and passes away.
Nothing is really resolved in this episode, and in some ways that might be an incredibly
realistic depiction of death, it doesn't solve problems or end a chapter.
Even if people reconcile, there's no time to enjoy that peace.
It's a sudden departure that comes too soon, no matter how late it may be.
Feeling lost, Sean once again takes off on a journey to discover himself.
What eventually brings Sean back two episodes later is the need to comfort his friend Corey
during a difficult time.
Before we begin, a quick content warning for anyone with a challenging pregnancy or infancy,
you can skip ahead to the timestamp below.
Amy Matthews revealed she was pregnant at the end of season 5, and in season 6, that
pregnancy was coming to an early end.
The baby was delivered early and is left in critical condition.
The next episode pulls no punches with several trips to the infant intensive care unit, and
it doesn't just highlight the struggle of the young Matthews baby.
Someone speaks to and gets to know the other parents who are going through the same thing,
including an uncredited cameo by series creator Michael Jacobs.
What I appreciate in this scene is how it acknowledges that many parents struggle with
this reality every day.
It isn't just a thing that the Matthews family come across one day to be conveniently
forgotten about when the show moves on.
The presence of the other families also carries with them in the awful suggestion that not
all babies can make it.
This is particularly clear in the revelation that, at least in this case, Joshua Matthews
is going to make it.
For all the difficulties the characters face in Boy Meets World, this one was probably
the most grueling and difficult to watch.
And it makes moments of levity even more of a relief.
What these heavy episodes also reveal is the greater dynamic for the series and its approach
to teaching its young audience about the world.
It began with familiar, well-known things that were taught to the kids, moved on to
things that were mysterious and a little uncertain, and then began moving towards the unexpected
unknown.
And it's a subject people never see coming, like the sudden early death of a parent or
a child being born in critical condition.
The stakes continuously go up in the series, revealing that the world is an increasingly
challenging place, and it can throw anything at you and you'll have to learn how to deal
with it, and hopefully learn from the experience.
The learning area isn't the safe space of the classroom anymore.
Although Boy Meets World had gotten incredibly heavy in these later seasons, it wasn't just
a series of unending traumas.
One bright spot was the impending marriage of Kori and Topanga, albeit with a few more
bumps along the way.
By the end of the perpetually-heavy season 6, we got to see the blossoming relationship
between Mr. Feeny and Dean Bolander.
Mr. Feeny having gone from fellow student at Penbrook University to one of the professors.
Because of course, Kori and his friends need Mr. Feeny to teach them through every year
of their education.
Dean Bolander was also played by William Daniels' real-life wife, Bonnie Bartlett.
Ahead of their marriage, Topanga finds out her parents are getting divorced, leading
Topanga devout her own engagement.
Season 7 opens with a two-parter where Kori tries to repair the relationship between
Topanga's parents, only to realize that sometimes love does die.
And while once again it may seem like this relationship is over, Kori and Topanga manage
to reconcile, when Topanga's mother tells her that even with the tragic end, love is
still worth it.
What can I do to make it up to you?
You could move your knee.
Sorry.
Whatever life takes us, I want it to be with you.
Forever.
Of all the breakups Kori and Topanga went through, this one was perhaps the least believable.
Largely because they had already called things quits three times before, and the appearance
of Lauren was a far more convincing threat than Topanga losing faith in love.
With their relationship so obviously solid, a wedding was the only place this story could
go.
And go there it did, albeit with some resistance from the network.
Michael Jacobs tells the story of how he convinced the network to let this happen.
The head of ABC, when I told them we were going to marry them at 19, said it was a very
irresponsible thing to do and that the audience didn't want it.
And I said to him, listen, you have this thing called abc.com.
It was brand new.
Why don't you run a graphic and find out how many people are waiting for Kori and Topanga
to marry?
And so he said, it's ridiculous, we'll get maybe 20,000 hits and that's it.
And who can tell anything from that?
And I said, why don't we try it?
And in the first seven minutes, they got about 280,000 hits and then the thing broke.
And out of the 280,000 hits, 280,000 people said, what do you think we're waiting for?
I got a call from the president of the network the next day who said, could you please marry
them in sweeps?
The week before the wedding, there was a cute tie-in during the credits for that week's
episode.
Kori and Topanga spoke about a website set up to celebrate their upcoming nuptials.
There's something very charming about how simple and quaint a website like this is.
And finally, in an episode titled, It's About Time, we see Kori and Topanga married.
Even though it's Kori and Topanga's wedding, the episode is actually about another important
relationship, Kori and Sean.
As far as you and me go, today is the last day that we're ever going to be Kori and Sean.
You know, Sean and Kori?
The fight runs into the wedding.
We have to talk about it.
I don't want to.
We have to.
Now?
Kori, after you get married, things are going to be different.
And I don't have a lot of friends, you know?
Do you really like her?
Yeah, I really do.
You sure?
John, I really think I've been very tolerant here.
Kori and Sean talk it out, and the wedding moves forward.
It's very strange that this wedding episode is about the guys.
It also highlights how important this friendship is to Kori, and how a marriage would change
that dynamic.
They're still best friends, but it's not quite the same anymore.
The Kori and Sean friendship can't really be understated, though it relies perhaps on
a few too many gay jokes about them, clearly written before the writers knew what the internet
did with that kind of bait.
It's still nice to see a male relationship that's not just about broing down and watching
the game together.
Kori and Sean support each other emotionally through some of the toughest parts of their
lives, and anyone would be lucky to have a friend like either one of them.
And it's a simple yet true lesson.
If you find a good friend who will stick with you during those tough times, hold on
to them as best you can.
It's one of the bittersweet moments of a wedding, knowing that this is the end of one
era and the beginning of another.
The series could have easily ended on this note, but it kept moving forward into a wider
unknown, the life of a married couple.
In The Honeymoon is Over, Kori and Topanga struggle to find housing.
They realize they don't have a place to live, with Topanga's apartment and Kori's
dorm conveniently occupied.
They go to Alan and Amy for help.
Amy?
They can't stay here.
They're married now.
It's Kori and Topanga, not Kori and us.
Remember?
Ma?
You can't stay here, Kori.
It seems pretty harsh for Kori's parents not to offer any kind of assistance here,
even a roof over their heads for a few days, especially when the alternative is for Kori
and Topanga to live in the dorm for married couples, which looks like this.
Why a university dorm is in shambles, I'm not entirely sure, but it clearly doesn't
matter for us, so Kori goes back to his father to once again ask for help.
You decided that you were old enough to get married.
You decided to take on the responsibility of a new life because you believed you could
handle it.
And this family supported that decision after we told you that it was going to be very difficult.
What did you think we were kidding?
I had many thoughts while watching this episode, but it would be unfair to discuss without
quickly running down the next one – picket fences.
The method to Alan's madness is explained in a later scene where Sean thinks the place
is nice, just in need of some work to fix it up a bit.
When Kori makes an effort to fix things up, he and Topanga gradually start to think they
can turn this rundown apartment into a home.
And a lesson is learned.
Topanga and I are going to pay in our place, we're going to put up a bookshelf, and
someday when we can afford it, we are going to buy that house with a nook without your
help.
Now, what do you have to say to that?
I'd say you finally figured it out.
Welcome to being an adult.
When your mother and I got married, we had nothing.
Nobody would help us, we did fine.
We didn't know it then, but it was the sweetest time in our lives.
We bonded together forever.
We felt completely in love because we knew we made a life for ourselves with nobody's
help but our own.
I would never take that away from you, son.
These two episodes are ridiculous.
In the first one, we find out what was fairly obvious throughout the series' run.
Kori and Topanga are upper middle class.
We're upper middle class, homeless college students.
And this lesson makes it abundantly clear.
The idea that suffering together through poverty is some kind of bonding ritual is
unbelievably privileged.
I want to look at how these episodes don't actually work.
The first question we should be asking is, who's paying for this dorm?
And who was paying for their previous dorm?
Neither Kory nor Topanga seem to have jobs, though they would in a few episodes.
They're also attending universities, something I imagine they aren't paying for with whatever
savings they have.
So it sounds like their parents are still taking care of at least some of those expenses.
For this story to be true to the message it's trying to present, Kori and Topanga
would be moving to their own place and having to get jobs to pay for everything, including
school, while attending.
This is a very hefty burden to put on someone, and expecting them to fix up their rundown
apartment on top of that.
How is this episode not about the absurd financial demands of obtaining a higher education, or
even just surviving in the modern world when you reach 20?
Clearly this real world experience isn't entirely real.
It seems more like a game for an upper-middle-class family to play at what it means to be poor,
and this little exercise is supposed to build character.
Except, there are people who live just the way Kory and Topanga would have to, working
and going to school while trying to keep a crummy apartment from collapsing in on itself.
And not because their parents want to teach them a lesson, it's because it's simply
a fact of their life, they don't have the means of affording anything better.
The biggest failure of this episode is to only fleetingly acknowledge that there are
people in situations such as Kory and Topanga.
Their neighbors are in rough spots, and they're at least depicted with some sensitivity, but
we don't get much acknowledgement from Kory and Topanga of how there seems to be something
wrong in a world where people are forced to live in rough conditions, because society
has made education a commodity easily purchased by the wealthy, and only attainable through
back-breaking effort for the poor.
If Allen and Amy's Grand Lesson had been instead to teach their kids about the injustice
in the world they had been sheltering them from, they would have made more sense.
It would still be harsh, of course, but it would be wisdom worth having.
The bonding exercise excuse seems like, at best, a rationalization, and the better lesson
learned from this episode is the unspoken one.
The seventh season was halfway through at this point, and while we'd see more of Kory
and Topanga's married life, including their first fight, there is another couple that
should be visited instead.
Angela and Sean's relationship is, much like Kory and Topanga's, a turbulent one.
Although unlike Kory and Topanga, their time apart is much longer.
At the beginning of season six, Angela and Sean break up, and manage to stay broken up
for the rest of the season, in spite of the fact that they clearly still have feelings
for one another, and in spite of the efforts of Kory and Topanga to get them back together.
The relationship between Sean and Angela is in direct contrast to Kory and Topanga.
Even Sean himself notices that.
Kory and Topanga are nice enough to point out that their romance is abnormal, but it's
clearly affected how Sean views relationships.
In a way, this puts the audience in Sean's shoes, seeing this ideal couple in Kory and
Topanga and wanting to live that themselves, but coming up short.
It isn't until season seven that Sean and Angela reconcile, bonding over having both
been abandoned by their parents, and the fear of growing up to be just like them, running
out on someone.
The relationship offers a nice lesson that it would only succeed if Angela and Sean were
able to relate to one another directly, and not trying to live up to the expectations
or example of their friends.
The relationship is also notable for being a very rare interracial pairing on 90s television.
Although the topic is never addressed in the show directly, and Angela's race is rarely
mentioned at all, it was a deliberate choice by the show's creators.
During an interview, Ryder Strong described the casting for Angela as exclusively looking
for Black or Latina actresses.
The pairing was meant to be the colorblind ideal where the race of the two characters
was entirely arbitrary.
This was something that Trina McGee appreciated, so much so that she wrote an op-ed in the
Los Angeles Times describing how she thought the relationship provided a positive example.
Here is an excerpt from that op-ed.
I get lots of positive reactions from both Black and white teenagers wanting to know
when Sean and I are getting back together.
The Black kids are not asking, why are you with that white boy?
When I intended the NAACP Image Awards, a Black girl lamented to me that Sean and Angela
are a perfect couple and should be back together.
The next day, a white girl in a mall begged to know if Sean and Angela are still in love.
One was nine, one pre-teen.
They are the new face of tolerance.
These kids are not looking at race, they're absorbing the love story.
To this day, Trina McGee still talks fondly about her experience on the show and how she
didn't really face many negative responses.
I think it's important to acknowledge that her op-ed was in response to outcry over a
scene in the series Allie McBeal where Callista Flockhart and Jesse L. Martin exchange a kiss
and that the series never broaches the topic of race.
A criticism never directed at Boy Meets World.
Part of that might be because the profile of Allie McBeal was higher, but it also may
be that Boy Meets World's younger audience wasn't expected to deal with a topic such
as race, and the fact that they weren't bothered by Angela and Sean, at least in Trina
McGee's experience, speaks to the fact of how racism is a learned behavior, that kids
aren't really born with this prejudice in their mind, but learn it through the examples
around them.
And from that perspective, Angela and Sean offer a positive example of an interracial
relationship.
But does that represent reality, a reality that a younger audience needs to learn about?
Those are big questions I'm not sure this video can really tackle, aside from acknowledging
that interracial relationships have faced a lot of social pressure and continue to do
so today.
I don't think a show is weaker for not reflecting reality though, it's just taking a different
approach to tackle the same problem.
I can't cover every single topic that comes up in one of these shows, so thankfully I
have a little help this time.
Hey, T1J here.
Just like Jose, I'm a huge fan of sitcoms, and I have a lot of nostalgic fondness for
Boy Meets World in particular.
So I actually also made a video about the show, except my video is focused around the
roller coaster relationship between Sean and Angela, which is maybe my favorite sitcom
couple story of all time, for various reasons, which you'll have to watch my video to learn.
Come check it out when you're done with Jose's video.
Sadly for Sean and Angela, the reunion only lasted until the end of season 7, as a few
episodes before the finale, we see Angela leave for Europe to spend some time reconnecting
with her father.
The episode also revealed another departure might be happening soon, with Tepanga getting
an offer from NYU.
And that brings us to the two-part series finale, Brave New World.
There isn't too much in the way of plot, as these episodes offer more a chance for
the characters to reflect on how their lives have brought them to this point, complete
with a number of clips from throughout the show's seven seasons.
Tepanga briefly considers not going to New York, but instead is convinced to go after
some words of wisdom from Mr. Feeney and some encouragement from Corey.
Eric decides to go along with Corey and Tepanga to New York City.
Sean and Corey are in the midst of saying goodbye, when Tepanga reveals, Sean is apparently
going with them too.
Jack and Rachel decide to go in the Peace Corps together, with Jack giving up his stepfather's
money.
And Corey has a moment with his new brother Joshua, who seems to have aged pretty quickly
in the last season.
And everyone says goodbye.
And the final line of the series is…
The series ends hitting the themes that ran through it, that those formative years are
called that for a reason, and those early relationships you forge can sit with you for
a lifetime.
Childhood isn't something to be frivolously forgotten as you age, but something to be
cherished and remembered as you grow older.
It's when the world begins to imprint itself on you, shaping your beliefs and relationships
for the rest of your life.
In an interview Michael Jacobs described it, what I think launched a sustained run for
Boy was an incredible evolution of what you knew, thought you know, to what you never
really knew at all.
And this final episode highlights that journey, from the world of the first season where the
lessons and stories are simple, to the more turbulent high school seasons where the world
of the characters is turned upside down, and then finally in the college years, it's
a whole new space where you realize how much more of the world there is to know.
The overarching story does reveal that this sitcom is coming from a very specific perspective,
one of the comfortable life of an upper middle class family.
Corey's life is challenging, but it doesn't feature hardships that outskied the scope
of a typical journey to adolescence.
That might be why the series doesn't feel dated, since the only troubles it tackles
are the ones kids have been facing for a long time and will continue to face into the future.
This show is ultimately about finding a place in the world, changing it where you can, but
still trusting that it is a place for you.
But the story of the Matthews family wasn't over here.
We get a glimpse of Corey and Topanga in New York, 14 years later, in a Boy Meets World
spinoff.
After Boy Meets World went off the air, it moved into syndication, and while most shows
have a few years there before fading away, something strange happened.
Boy Meets World did very well on the Disney Channel.
So well that the show's profile actually went up, with its old audience returning to
it and a new audience discovering it for the first time.
The growing popularity led to the possibility of a reboot, and after much urging from Disney,
Michael Jacobs would return to these characters in 2014 with Girl Meets World.
Starring Rowan Blanchard as Riley Matthews, Corey and Topanga's daughter, and Sabrina
Carpenter, her best friend Maya Hart, the series is set in New York City and tells the
story of a girl meeting the world.
Only the Mr. Feeny role this time is played by Corey Matthews.
In addition to telling the stories of Riley and Maya, and their group of friends, the
series also featured a number of cameos of Boy Meets World favorites, tying up several
loose ends and offering a few moments of closure.
Although the series stands well enough on its own, it's definitely enhanced by having
watched Boy Meets World.
Episode 16 in the first season, Girl Meets Home for the Holidays, is a particularly great
episode as it features the return of Sean Hunter.
What makes this episode work so well is how it builds on the original series, with Wayward
Sean constantly looking for a home and integrates him into the story of Maya who's struggling
to find a place for herself, and it speaks to the show's theme of how people change
people, how Corey changed Sean, Riley changed Maya, and how Sean and Maya can change one
another.
It ran for three seasons on the Disney Channel, totaling 72 episodes, before being canceled
in 2017.
The cancellation of the series was a bit surprising as its ratings had only slightly dipped over
three seasons, and Michael Jacobs had fought to keep the show on the air, whether at Disney
or somewhere else.
But it had a solid send-off, and while it might not have been as consistent as Boy Meets
World, Girl Meets World's highest points might have been a few notches higher.
After finishing Boy Meets World, Ben Savage would go to Stanford, where he majored in
political science.
After completing his education, he returned to the world of entertainment, acting and
directing, and a number of different projects.
He's also been cast to play younger versions of Mandy Patinkin on two different shows,
which I think is a fun fact.
Ryder Strong also took some time off from acting after Boy Meets World to attend Columbia
University, though he did take a semester off to appear on the movie Cabin Fever.
More recently, he's done less acting as he's instead chosen to focus on writing and directing.
Daniel Fischl went on to appear in a number of movies and worked as a TV presenter following
the end of Boy Meets World.
Eventually, she decided to go back to school attending California State University Fullerton,
attaining a degree in psychology.
More recently, she has been working as a director.
Will Friedle landed another major role while working on Boy Meets World, becoming the voice
of Terry McGinnis in the animated series Batman Beyond.
In a strange coincidence, that series finished its last recording on the same day that Boy
Meets World wrapped filming.
Since then though, Friedle has become a prolific voice actor, appearing in numerous series
from Kim Possible to a slew of other TV shows and video games.
In his personal life, he's also learned to manage anxiety issues that affected him
during and after the end of Boy Meets World, and happily he now seems to be in a much better
place in his life.
Betsy Randall took some time off from acting a few years after the end of Boy Meets World,
but she has been working continuously since returning in 2014.
She's most recently appeared in the movie Painter, and in 2013, she celebrated the
birth of her first grandchild.
William Russ has been acting consistently since the end of Boy Meets World, appearing
in countless TV shows and movies.
Most notably he appeared in Deadwood as Otis Russell.
He also has the unique distinction of being the only actor to direct episodes of Boy Meets
World and Girl Meets World.
Trina McGee continued to act following the end of Boy Meets World, appearing in movies
and television, including movies Friday after Next, and the excellently titled movie Da
Booty Shop.
Just recently she wrote and directed the film Detainment.
Matthew Lawrence continued to act in movies and television after finishing up on Boy Meets
World.
He's done less acting over the years, but he has continued singing on occasion, having
been a singer since his childhood.
He recently performed in the 2021 movie Mistletoe Mix-Up, singing alongside his brothers Joey
and Andrew.
After Boy Meets World, Maitland Ward continued to act for a few years, notably appearing
in the movie White Chicks.
Over the years she has moved away from the mainstream acting world and in 2019, she began
working in adult films.
She seems to be quite happy in her new field and is enjoying exploring this new career
path.
Even after such a long and prolific career, William Daniels continued to act in a number
of roles following the end of Boy Meets World, including a recent reprisal as the card Kit
from Knight Rider in the 2020 movie Super Intelligence.
Daniels has become more selective with his projects in recent years, and at 95 years
of age, he's mostly taking life easy these days.
He is still married to his wife of 70 years, Bonnie Bartlett, and they are still adorable
together.
While researching this video, I watched over a dozen different panels at band conventions
where the cast shared memories of working on the series, and what was particularly surprising
was how many of these panels were in the last five years.
And while there were always Girl Meets World fans who found the show later in life, there
are also a number of older fans who fondly remember it from their childhood, talking
about how comforting it was to watch these characters, who remind them of the more carefree
days of the 90s.
These are the childhood memories of when everything was going to turn out alright if
we just followed the rules, and we did, yet here we are.
Things aren't alright at all.
The world and television in general has become a more cynical place in the 22 years since
the last episode of Boy Meets World aired, and I don't think there's any shame in
watching a few episodes of a TV series that carried some optimism and hope about how in
this big scary world, there was still a place for you.
It's comfort without being completely overwhelmed by fantasy.
Boy Meets World isn't blind to the suffering of the world, and goes out of its way to explore
these topics, but it can never escape the family-friendly TGIF dynamic it was born into,
and while that doesn't make it a bad show, I think it's important to acknowledge its
perspective.
That comfort, with a dose of reality, might be the key to its longevity.
It saw the world, at least part of it, as something flawed, yet held out some hope that
it could be made better, which is why the series ended with a final lesson from Mr.
Feeney to dream, try, and do good.
With the safe lesson of Boy Meets World over, offering a hint of the trials ahead of us,
the lesson is not to wish for the fantasies it presented, or cynically sneer at its limited
scope, but to instead take to heart the idea that we make the most of the only world we've
got, and hopefully the next generation will be making a better one.
When I first started doing these retrospectives, Boy Meets World was one of the first shows
I saw requested.
I remember thinking to myself, probably not likely.
I was never a huge fan, I don't know if I necessarily want to revisit that one, but
over time the requests kept coming, and eventually I was worn down, and I was happily surprised.
It held up pretty well, and while it doesn't resonate as strongly as it probably does for
the more die-hard Boy Meets World fans out there who might be watching this, I hope you
still enjoyed this trip down memory line, and this revisiting of a beloved series.
This video would not have been possible without the lovely names you see floating up the screen
here.
These are my lovely patrons and members.
If you would like to join them and help make videos like this possible, you can join my
Patreon below, and that will give you early access to videos, your name in the credits
of course, and download links to my theme songs.
I might even take the opportunity to answer a few questions from patrons in these closing
credits of a video.
If you'd like to support this channel in a non-monetary fashion, you can like, comment,
subscribe, and ring the bell for notifications, which I've been told really helps.
Thank you all so much for watching!
