Wow, there's a title for you. Gun control is not genocide.
That seems like a non-controversial opinion, if I've ever seen one.
I came up with it after watching the video I want to talk about today.
I think we might have a disagreement here.
Does anyone remember Mike Adams? He's the self-styled health ranger who
produces a stream of nonsense for the website Natural News.
Natural News is a crackpot website that does its best to misunderstand science
and fear-monger scary scientific terms. It was popularized by fellow voice
howling in the wilderness and angriest man on the planet, Alex Jones.
We know we're under attack! We know it! We're breaking the conditioning!
Ahh! Ahh! We're coming for you, globalist! Ahh! Coming for you!
Coming for you! We know what you're doing!
I'm sorry.
Back in August of 2012, Adams produced a mini-documentary titled
Gun Control is Genocide. It's actually part two of a series,
but I'll mention part one a little later.
Whenever there's a renewed push for gun control legislation,
Infowars trots out this gun control is genocide documentary and the cycle of stupid is renewed.
You might not recognize it from YouTube because YouTube deleted the entire Natural News channel
back on March 3rd of 2018, but the mini-documentary lives on in the much sketchier domain of Vimeo.
It's only about eight minutes, but, well, I wouldn't even recommend wasting that much time.
Let's just talk about why it's nonsense.
A democracy is based on the fundamental concept that a distribution of power among the many
creates a better society. It is the concentration of power among the few,
such as what we see in a dictatorship that leads to corruption and exploitation of the people.
Adams not only gets the idea of a monopoly of force wrong, he also gets democracy wrong.
In the United States and most other countries in the world, from Canada to China, the government
already has a monopoly of force, more commonly understood as a monopoly of violence. The basic
idea is that individuals living in a state understand that only the state can claim a
legitimate use of force against citizens. There are laws in most countries against assault
and murder, and typically when a crime is committed, it's the police who handle it,
and not an angry mob or vigilante. There are exceptions in case of self-defense,
but generally speaking, most modern nations have a state monopoly on violence.
And as for how Adams gets democracy wrong, when he says the sharing of power, that's
not really the same as the sharing of weaponry. It means the distribution of political power,
usually through voting. I can't believe I have to explain this, but democracies don't choose
their elected officials by one side threatening the other with guns. True global anti-gun movement
would see governments abandoning the use of force against the people. The armed raids on
California raw milk producers, for example, or the use of guns to force parents to vaccinate
their children against their will are all the result of a monopoly of force in the hands of
the government. This part's kinda nice. It's important to understand that not all state violence
is good, and while the monopoly on violence is probably better than vigilantes running around
taking care of whatever they deem necessary, it's telling that in this documentary the best
examples Adams could come up with were raids against raw milk farms and vaccination. I'm not
sure anyone is being vaccinated at gunpoint, and the only evidence of that I could find was this
painting by an artist from Sesame Street magazine. No joke, the guy who drew this used to do work for
Sesame Street magazine, until they realized he was a crazy dude and they just kinda cut him off.
So there are great examples of the government using its monopoly of violence irresponsibly.
For instance, when you see an unarmed man shot by police, usually black. Of course,
this video was made in 2012, before Black Lives Matters really came into the spotlight.
What are Health Ranger Mike Adams' thoughts on police officers murdering innocent people?
Oh, that's, um, oh, that's a hot take. Sorry for the pun. But putting aside any Twitter hot take,
he consistently tweets about BLM. But by BLM, he means the Bureau of Land Management. It's
strange that he never thought of trying to turn that into a hashtag. Until September 2015, when
the Black Lives Matter movement really picked up steam on Twitter. So what he's trying to do is
hijack the BLM hashtag to support white ranchers taking over a government building. Charming dude.
That braces us for the next section. R.J. Rummel at the University of Hawaii has extensively studied
what's called democide, the term describing death by government. According to his extensive
research through over 8,000 reports of government-caused deaths, Rummel estimates that there have
been 262 million victims of democide in the last century. That's six times as many people have
died from government-inflicted murder than have died in battle. In other words, if you think war
is bad, a monopoly of violence in the hands of government is far worse. All right, let's talk
about Rudolph Joseph Rummel. He came up with the term democide, which is used to describe when
government murders its own citizens. His stats on democide are widely circulated on Infowars and
other nonsense websites. And of course, these stats are, at best, contentious, as Rummel seems to take
the highest possible number of dead in every instance. As an example, the number of those
murdered by the government in China was originally considered to be 35 million in Rummel's first book
on the subject in 1991, but later he decided that the government was also responsible for the 38
million killed by famine. So he revised that figure of 35 million to 72 million in his 2005 book.
Maybe that's a fair assessment. I'm not really interested in being a malapologist here,
but I'm not convinced Rummel's stats can be considered authoritative if he's literally
doubling them when he finds a new degree of responsibility towards the government.
That said, it's difficult to engage with an academic who is written so prolifically on a
subject, especially when I have literally never heard of him outside of an Infowars website.
But as you might not be surprised, very little of what Rummel has to say, at least from my research,
has anything to do with gun control. The closest I could find was this quote.
As a family member. As one simply seeking happiness. Most of what one does now is subject
to government rules, regulations, and laws, and can be vetoed by judges or bureaucrats who are
backed up ultimately by the gun. That kind of makes him sound like he'd be a fellow traveler with
Mike Adams in his ilk, but it still doesn't go anywhere towards a stance on gun control.
If someone can point me towards Rummel's thoughts on gun control, I'd be highly curious. Rummel is
very much a fan of classical liberalism, kind of an ominous term nowadays, although he was talking
about that well before it was cool with the centrists. But when Rummel talks about the
concentration of power, he's talking about the difference between democracies and communist
states. He very much comes across as someone who bought into the red scare, and it's strange how
he pays close attention to the communist governments failing their people like the famine
in Mao's China, but he seems less interested in acknowledging how many people have died from a
lack of healthcare or due to homelessness in democracies. Apparently he doesn't see this as
the responsibility of a government in a democracy. Adams tries very hard to tie gun control to the
stats presented by Rummel, but Rummel's work is pretty explicitly about democracy. And Adams
doesn't understand that democracy is not a product of an armed standoff, it's a divide that
can't be bridged in an eight minute documentary, or by an idiot. Halfway into this mini talk,
shit starts getting weird. Really weird. And because the right to self-defense is a divine right,
those who act to erode or nullify such a right are acting in violation of nature,
and in violation of our creator, those who support gun disarmament in...
First I want to hold on to this image, because this woman perfectly captures my response to the
idea of God having given people guns. As a non-believer, I'm not really sure what to say to this
except... Wow. As I mentioned earlier, this is actually part two of a documentary. That first
part of the documentary was titled The Divine Right of Self-Defense, and it's about how animals
defend themselves sometimes with projectiles like the spitting cobra. I want to play a very short
clip from this first documentary to show some of the sound effects Mike has added to this little
squirrel. The California ground squirrel is known to distract predators such as the rattlesnake and
gophersnake from locating their nest burrows by kicking sand into their eyes.
So intense. Anyway, I'm not going to really talk about that video much more. It basically says the
same things in this video while throwing in some shade towards police officers and plenty of other
examples of animals throwing things, projecting things at each other. The gun control is genocide
itself. It's really called gun control is genocide. I still can't get over that. The
doc dates itself by talking about the shooting at the movie theater in Aurora, Colorado in 2012
where gunfire killed 12 and wounded 58. I'd also like to note how strange it is to think that this
was only six years ago. This seems so far away, so far back in the past, and thinking about how
little has been done to change this. It makes much of Adams's commentary seem even stupider,
if that's possible. In banning concealed carry weapons in the hands of legal and lawful owners
in their city, Aurora officials created precisely the conditions that allowed a massacre to result
in a large body count. They forced the citizens to be defenseless, even while knowing their own
police forces could not provide protection to everyone. Aurora may, in fact, have been
selected by the shooter precisely because the city's gun restriction laws would practically
guarantee a disarmed crowd. Laws that ban concealed carry, it turns out, create what
might be called a hunting preserve for psychopaths. Another wow moment. I usually don't see such a
fluid stream of nonsense every day, but hey, the internet is a magical place like that.
First off, the idea that gun control would have no effect on the 2012 shooting is ridiculous.
The shooter, James Holmes, had visited three different psychiatrists, and one of them had
described him as having homicidal thoughts that didn't prevent Holmes from going out
and legally buying three guns in the weeks leading up to the shooting. In the interest of
balance, let me be a dirty centrist for a moment here because there's a caveat to that.
The psychiatrist who noted Holmes' tendency towards homicidal thoughts decided not to put
him on a mental health hold because she believed he was borderline and putting Holmes on hold would
have inflamed him. That might put the onus on her, but keep in mind that someone put on mental
health hold, which means 72 hours or less at a mental health facility, does not have to give up
any guns they may have purchased before being put on hold. And yeah, Holmes had purchased a gun
weeks prior to the psychiatrist noticing his homicidal thoughts. If police were given the power
to confiscate the weapons of a man with homicidal thoughts, and if mental health professionals could
be confident that putting someone on hold would ensure that they then wouldn't be able to go out
and easily kill some people afterwards, it might have helped things. But this is getting pretty
heavy, so I hope Mike can cheer us up with something.
Hold on, what the fuck is this? Did Mike Adams record this? Is this some kind of
first-person home invasion fantasy he's showing us? Oh god, Mike, these are home videos you shouldn't
be sharing with the world to make fun of. And oh god, Mike, do you have any more of these?
Anyway, back to the prayer. I pray that we see through the propaganda and the deception
of citizen disarmament politics. He doesn't talk about this in the video, but I want to mention it
anyway. What is up with these pro-gun people and Nazis? Can they really not think of any other
examples of countries with gun control laws without mentioning the Nazis? Modern Germany
has gun control laws and seemed like it's more similar to the US than the Germany of the 1930s.
The gun laws of Germany in 1938 actually made owning firearms much easier for the average
German citizen. It restricted gun ownership of Jewish people, but plenty of Jewish people
actually had guns leading right up to the Holocaust. Turns out that owning guns wasn't
enough to stop state violence. But perhaps an engaged political class that stands in solidarity
with a persecuted minority might be a stronger deterrent. What does Mike Adams have to say about
Black Lives Matter again? Oh yeah. I'll spare you the rest of the prayer when Mike Adams reads out
for us, especially since it's got a lot of images of dead bodies and even worse, more of Adams's
drivel. He never really addresses the fact that dozens of countries around the world have
thoughtful gun legislation and have not descended into some kind of Nazi hellscape.
Responding to Adams's use of rumble, his sighting of the Holmes case, and even discussing Nazi gun
laws introduces nuance and complexity that you don't see in his work. Even at only eight minutes,
the video still makes the same tired points repeatedly without adding anything new. I didn't
know you could get this repetitive with such little real estate. The simplistic trappings
of people like Adams are so effective, not just because they mislead, but also because they
nullify discussion, or at least make it very difficult for anyone with a rebuttal. Gun control
is genocide. When you put it that simply, anyone who wants to believe such an obvious lie will
swallow any garbage you present them, even things that are obviously not true. And while I hope this
response went some way into debunking his falsehoods, I suspect that Adams's fans don't really care.
He's telling them something they want to believe, and that's enough. In the future, I want to try
something different. I imagine we'll still be laughing at buffoons like Mike Adams, but reacting
and debunking only gets us so far. I want to understand where people like Mike Adams come from
and what drives them to spread garbage information. It's probably just money, isn't it?
If you enjoyed this video, consider following me on Twitter. My handle is
at Jose Nada J. That is all one word. And hey, why not subscribe to my YouTube channel, or
hit that like button, or share this video with a friend. Oh, I feel like a proper YouTuber now.
Thanks for watching, everyone.
