Matt Walsh is not an interesting guy. His talking points are poorly evidenced and infantile,
his delivery is flat and lacking in charisma, and the subjects he covers reveal an embarrassingly
narrow perspective of the world. But he is incredibly lucky, and that's the secret to
his success. Matt Walsh matters insofar that he serves as an object lesson on how right-wing
media figures continuously push on the limits of acceptable discourse to direct society backwards
into a regressive state that strips away the rights of people to create a religiously centered
culture. This kind of extreme Christian conservatism has been going on for a long time, and it's
important to continuously oppose. But Matt Walsh himself? He's mediocre at best. There are a lot
of other people doing the same thing and often much better than he is, but why is he someone
people suddenly have to care about? Let's do a quick rundown of this guy's history if you're not
familiar with him. Originally a radio host in Delaware, Walsh bounced around from a few jobs
struggling to last for more than a year or two. He started a blog in 2012, eventually catching
the attention of Glenn Beck's The Blaze in 2014. In 2017 he started writing for Ben Shapiro's The
Daily Wire, and he got his own show, The Matt Walsh Show, in 2018. But it wasn't until 2022 that he
really started catching people's eye, notably with his anti-trans movie What is a Woman.
As his biggest success by far, it would be weird not to mention it, but I'm not going to go too
into depth on this particular movie because it's been thoroughly debunked by other people on YouTube.
So if you want a detailed breakdown, I would recommend Jessie Jender's videos on the subject.
She goes into great detail on why this movie is a little propaganda. But we do at least have to
address what kind of content he puts out there, so instead I'm going to take a look at what it's
like to watch his show. The Matt Walsh Show has a basic formula. He has one story he speaks to for
the first 15 to 20 minutes of the show, then a series of five headlines he gives a couple of
minutes to, then he responds to viewer comments, and finally one last story to cap off the episode.
Although it's segmented to give the show the appearance of variety, the only real difference
is the length of each segment as pretty much all of it is just Walsh commenting on a piece of news
or another commentary. The first thing I noticed while watching is that, even for the big stories
up front, Matt Walsh very rarely goes into detail about any subject he's supposedly commenting on.
This is particularly obvious when he discusses trans issues, something he typically touches
on several times in episode. In one episode, from May 2nd, 2023 titled Princeton Professor
Tries to Debunk Biology Fails Hilariously, episode 1156, my god he's done a lot of these,
Walsh responds to an article published on the Scientific American website.
For some context before we jump in, this article is titled Here's Why Human Sex is Not Binary,
Over the Don't Make a Woman, and Sperm Don't Make a Man by Augustin Fuentes, a professor of
anthropology at Princeton University. This article is a response to how the emphasis is often placed
on how people are assigned male or female at birth on the basis of whether they produce
sperm or ova. He provides a few examples of people reducing sex to one of those two things,
and then explains with more examples and commentary from various scientific sources
how the many complications of human sex make it difficult to place it in a binary.
Here's an excerpt from the article that sums it up well. When someone states that
quote, an organism's sex is defined by the type of gamete, sperm, or ova it has the function of
producing, unquote, and argues that legal and social policy should be quote, rooted in properties
of bodies, unquote, they are not really talking about gametes and sex biology. They are arguing
for a specific political and discriminatory definition of what is quote unquote natural
and quote unquote right for humans based on a false representation of biology.
And he gives several historical examples of what that discrimination has often looked like.
It's a pretty good article that offers a primary for why sex shouldn't be understood as a binary
and focuses on how sex is used by political actors to discriminate against others.
Matt Walsh is not so kind in his assessment of the article. What's most noticeable in his analysis
though is how shallow his reading of the article is. Here's how he starts a segment. Starting at
the top of the article says, there are those politicians, pundits, and even a few scientists
who maintain that whether our bodies make ova or sperm are all we need to know about sex.
We already see the game that he's playing. The headline promises proof that human sex is not
binary. This is a big promise. But then in the first sentence, Professor Fuentes sets himself up
for a very different and much smaller task. It's weird that Matt Walsh is calling the first sentence
some kind of sleight of hand when it was clear what the article was about from the subheading.
Though that part of the article is never shown or read during this segment, just the broad headline
up top. Kind of be like talking about the Star Wars movies without including their subheadings.
It kind of is important to differentiate them and give you a little more context of what's being
discussed, but instead we're getting context removed so Matt Walsh can more easily make his
point. You really get the impression he either has it read or is deliberately ignoring certain
parts of this article. Here's some more evidence of that. He announces his intention to respond to
the claim that whether our bodies make ova or sperm are all we need to know about sex, except
that, well, nobody ever said that ova and sperm are all we need to know about sex. If you read the
original Scientific American article, you can see he's linked several examples of people saying
just that. Not that you have to go anywhere else because you can see Walsh do a version of it
himself less than a minute later. He's not actually, it looks like we're disproving it,
he's just adding on other details. But even if those other details are true, that wouldn't
disprove the basic fact that there are only male and female gametes, which means that there are
only two sexes, which means that sex is binary. Reading the article, Professor Fuentes clarifies
that when someone, like Matt Walsh, claims there are other factors, they never seem to explain
anything beyond genitals and gametes. This video is just another case of that. We're told there are
other factors, but never what those factors actually are. Seems like it would be a really
good time to bring them up, but we just don't get them here. The segment is exhausting in that it's
more or less Walsh going through the article, reading lengthy excerpts, and reacting to them,
but each time he misses crucial context that would either change or complicate what he's trying to
respond to. He'll complain that the article is just making empty assertions, apparently unaware
that in the original you can see it links to many sources, several from peer-reviewed journals. It
actually assembles quite a bit of evidence to support each claim that's being made. Not that
you could ever tell from the Walsh segment, since the excerpts are just displayed as text and you
can't really tell, they're linking to a lot of supporting information. Throughout this entire
segment, Matt Walsh doesn't cite a single source. He just makes a vague allusion to the science.
This is a pattern of his. The challenge in responding to so much of what Matt Walsh says
is that he not only doesn't understand what he's responding to, whether that's deliberate or not,
he also refuses to do any homework. If someone cites scientific research that counters his claim,
he just doesn't acknowledge it. Walsh smugly argues at the end,
Variations within a category do not invalidate the category. Males need to exist as a category
in order for us to say anything about a male, a human male, such as human males are all different,
they have different expressions. This article is not arguing that categories within sex don't exist.
Categories do exist within a spectrum. When a scientist says light is a spectrum, for instance,
they're not saying that colors don't exist, just that the boundaries between colors are not so clear
cut as they would be in a binary. And Walsh doesn't even seem to understand the basic point of this
article. It's not about upending some kind of scientific consensus that he's imagined. It's
using established science to talk about how that science is politicized. And Matt Walsh is doing
that politicizing in this very video. He's not engaging with any of the material in a meaningful
sense, he's just twisting it to meet his own ends. This is what Walsh's content often boils down to,
butchering evidence to make a hateful point. In the May 3rd, 2023 episode of his show,
others of trans kids give insane reasons for transitioning their children, episode 1157,
we get all of that ignorance distilled into one of Matt Walsh's favorite rhetorical moves.
But we don't even need to talk about the science, because it's also logically fallacious. It doesn't
make any logical sense. Of all the episodes I watched while researching this video,
he never gets around to talking about the science. He would rather fixate on the simplified language
of activists than actually dive into the science he's supposedly defending. And that's how he
operates on most topics. In another episode, the left demands we surrender our families and
communities to violent criminals, episode 1159. He describes a story where a trans man,
Brown, in San Francisco was shot and killed by armed security outside of Walgreens after Brown
was suspected of shoplifting. Since no charges were filed and Brown was trans and black,
and since this happened in San Francisco, Matt Walsh believes we don't need to look at the actual
details of this case. As we know, the official legal bar for self-defense is set at a certain
height. But the unofficial bar for self-defense against someone who belongs to three different
victim classes is set significantly higher. And this security guard apparently cleared both the
official bar and the unofficial bar, which is all we really need to know about the case.
He mentions three victim classes in this clip because he's also misgendering Brown. Actually,
looking at the details of this case reveals some interesting facts, such as Brown was alleged to
have threatened to stab the security guard, yet no knife was recovered at the scene. And Walsh's
commentary completely ignores that the fact that this killing has raised an interesting question
about armed security being used at a drugstore. We can see Walsh lie about this in real time as he
describes the activists. That's why activists in San Francisco are now calling for the abolition
of security guards in response to this incident. Activists aren't calling for the elimination of
security guards, though. We can see that in the article Walsh himself is reading out. It's very
explicit about it being armed security that they're concerned about. Instead of dealing
with the points being raised by activists, Walsh would sooner misrepresent them so he can say stuff
like this. Stealing isn't worth the cost of human life. So don't steal. Walsh then goes on to make
a painfully simplistic argument about the need to defend property with lethal force, which includes
anything you might get from a Walgreens. It's a very bad and silly point on the face of it.
If you need a YouTuber to explain why someone shouldn't be executed on the spot for stealing
loaf of bread or even, as Walsh at one point speculates, some fancy headphones, then you have
a perspective on life that I don't think is going to be changed by a single YouTube video. Here's
some more criminal justice reform ideas from Walsh. This time it's regarding the death penalty for
pedophiles. Not only are we executing these people, but we're doing it quickly. We're not giving them
30 years to appeal, okay? The conviction is passed down, you're convicted, you're guilty, you've been
found guilty, and then the execution is carried out the next day. Take them up, take them out to
the gallows, you bring them up on the platform, you tie a rope around their neck, pull the lever,
boom, it's done. Walsh concocts this whole imaginary scenario that, I'm sure in his mind,
makes perfect sense. In the real world though, death sentences are highly contested because
many of them are overturned. For example, the Innocence Project specializes in overturning
wrongful convictions through more modern investigative techniques, and many others
sentenced to death have had those convictions overturned when new evidences discovered.
Walsh's fantasy leaves no room for that and would mean innocent people would die. It also has this
assumption that the justice system is perfect, which is just not true. Even on the point of a
hanging being quick and effective, the reason hangings were stopped was because they often aren't.
A botched hanging results in someone being slowly strangled to death. It's a struggle to describe
Walsh's arguments as anything more than childish and lazy. He's very good at finding a way to never
think deeply about any of the topics he covers. Why cite scientific research when you can simply
make a reference to the science? Why honestly debate what activists are saying when you can
create a simpler strawman to rail against instead? Why genuinely consider how the death penalty is
applied when you can instead make up an imaginary scenario that is completely divorced from reality?
Poor arguments framed by missing context are all his show is though. He does devote a lot of
time to creating bait. This is usually in the shape of having an over-the-top reaction about
trivial things. For example, calling people savages if they let their pets sleep in the same bed.
He also describes adults who like Disney World as mentally ill and he hates bicycle lanes.
It's here his commentary is more obviously laid bare as the trolling it so often is. And what
makes it effective is that it's hard to tell apart from his more serious commentary. They're
similarly poorly argued and often based on Walsh's gut feelings about something and he's needlessly
confrontational about everything he says. It would be nice if he were just a silly guy we could
afford to ignore, crying about people who let their pets sleep on the bed, using his pathetic
bait to get media watchdogs and other commentators like myself to address him like he's someone
worth considering. And if that was all he was, I wouldn't waste time talking about him in a video
like this one. Instead, I think it's important to acknowledge this bait because it reflects the
soft nature of all his news commentary and there are aspects of that commentary that are genuinely
harmful. The bait and the harmful commentary are similar in that none of it is very substantial
and whenever it approaches any subject that has any complexity whatsoever, for example gender,
all that nuance and complexity gets wiped away so Matt Walsh can comment on it at his own level.
And as embarrassing as all of this is, the saddest part of the show is when he starts arguing with
YouTube comments. And at Accretionist says, yes, respecting LGBT people is difficult for you and
asking for that respect is brainwashing. We understand witless sadism, Matt. Well, I'm sure
you do. Or what he calls on his audience to harass Dwayne Wade. Dwayne Wade everywhere he
goes should be jeered and mocked and shouted at everywhere he goes. That should happen.
And there are so many other examples where Matt Walsh just seems determined to come off as like
this lecturing dad type ready to put someone in their place. He desperately wants to be seen as
some kind of tough guy or authority figure, but it's not very convincing and it just reads as
deeply insecure. Part of the problem of responding to a guy like this is it's very easy to get trapped
in the endless corrections for all the lies he spreads, whether he's doing it knowingly or
because he just doesn't understand. The one overriding impression though is that this guy
is clearly not capable enough to be arguing in the position he's found himself in.
The whole package of the Matt Walsh show is a sad one. He's a limited man,
desperate to present himself as some kind of powerful voice. It raises the important question
of how did this guy become as successful as he is? First we should probably ask though,
was he always this bad? In a lengthy expose put together by Media Matters, a series of old clips
from 2010 to 2011 revealed some commentary from Matt Walsh that display some of his more extreme
positions.
When this story broke, some people were shocked by the content and while it's certainly more
masked off than his current stuff, you can see a lot of the patterns Walsh uses in the present day.
In these old clips he makes vague gestures to the past while being completely historically
illiterate and he's unable to engage with viewpoints that aren't his own. For example,
in one of the longer clips when he's making a point about teenage pregnancy and marriage,
he has very poor responses to his co-host who keeps raising the point of how difficult it is
to avoid a family these days, these days being about 10 years ago. Not that it's gotten much
better. Instead of actually engaging with this very valid point, Walsh goes on a rant about how
college is useless and how people had the right idea 50 years ago and that 16 year olds are
basically adults. None of that is true and none of it addresses the point that's being raised about
the economics of bringing up a family today, especially if we're talking about a pregnant
teenager. Never mind the social, personal, and physical burdens as well. But that's how Matt
Walsh engages in any sort of debate. He has a specific idea of how things work in his head
and he's not going to deviate from that no matter what evidence you show him or what arguments you
bring to his face. He has an opinion set in stone that's often simple and poorly informed and he's
not going to let anything change that. What these clips reveal is that Matt Walsh was making the same
thoughtless, religiously tinted commentary throughout his career. This isn't a character
he adopted a few years ago, this is just who this guy is. One of the keys to understanding this
commentary is to know that Matt Walsh has a very specific kind of Christian worldview. He identifies
as a Catholic and through that faith he interprets the world around him. While not all Christians or
even all Catholics would share Walsh's vision of Christianity, he has found common cause among other
Christian conservatives who support his faith-based arguments. When Walsh starts discussing politics
it's through that Christian lens his worldview starts to make sense, specifically when he
identifies liberalism as satanic. It is 2017 book, The Unholy Trinity, blocking the left's assault on
life, marriage, and gender. It opens, the first liberal was named Lucifer. He elaborates on this
a bit later, writing, this philosophy has propelled all the great villains throughout history.
It is the philosophy of Judas, of Nero, of Genghis Khan, of Adolf Hitler, of Hillary Clinton.
The specifics of what these people all believed and how they framed it around political circumstances
of the day isn't terribly relevant, for they desired the same thing and worshipped the same
god, the self. Walsh later claims that even the label of liberal or progressive are different
reflections of that same deeper idea of self-worship, making this opposition to self-worship a very
malleable thing. When Walsh writes about the political circumstances of the day not being
terribly relevant, it's a convenient way of discarding any additional facts or circumstances
that might complicate the point he's trying to make. A tactic you probably noticed earlier.
This is just Matt Walsh's move. Ignore nuance, ignore complexity or depth, reduce everything to
a simple talking point, and move on from there. To the point where Nero, Adolf Hitler, and Hillary
Clinton are basically the same villain. Walsh certainly isn't an originator of this idea of
self-worship, and it's a charge that any non-believers will probably recognize. It's this
move of defining you not by what you believe, but what someone else says you're missing.
In this case, worship of the god Matt Walsh believes in. It's a way of taking someone's
arguments and beliefs away from them and instead placing them into an easily shaped strawman that
can be more easily dispatched. It's a very lazy and dishonest way to frame somebody. And by the
way, that god Matt Walsh believes in is not one shared by all Christians, at least according to
him. In his 2020 book, Church of Cowards, a wake-up call to complacent Christians, he writes,
Today, around 70% of Americans claim to be Christian. This number represents a marked decline,
but the problem is not the decline in professed believers. If we had simply lost 10 or 20%,
but still we had 70 who were really and truly on fire with the faith, there would be far less
cause for concern. But the problem with the 70% is that it is not really 70%. The 70% is mostly
composed of the sort of Christians who cannot be readily distinguished from atheists. He then
decries how Christians in America have become too permissive and don't take their faith seriously
enough. The book even opens with a hypothetical scenario of a group of heathens invading America
and being shocked to find out it isn't the Christian nation they thought it was.
One of the big crises Walsh sees is the lack of Christianity in America, the type of Christianity
he espouses, particularly on issues that animate him. The three causes he mentions in Unholy
Trinity are abortion, gay marriage, and transgender people. And he believes any real Christian would
oppose all three things. He comes across as very strident and firm in his faith. But it's interesting
to contrast how hard Walsh is against Christians he thinks don't measure up, compared to when he
speaks to Ben Shapiro about religion. If you figure out how to love anyone outside of yourself
during your life, then I think that's something God can take and work with. And those are little
embers of something that he can ignite into fire in a good sense. Some important context here is
that Shapiro is Jewish and Matt Walsh's boss, and you can see Walsh's tone become much softer,
mumbling something vague about loving other people and giving God something to work with.
What he and Shapiro really share is that they happen to be fighting the same enemy.
This is how alliances are often forged in right-wing spaces, particularly at right-wing media.
It's not about what you fight for, it's about what you fight against,
and it's not about what you believe, it's about what you hate. That's not really enough to explain
why Matt Walsh's profile has risen to the point where he's more well known than many other
conservative commentary figures. While he's not at the level of Ben Shapiro or even Candace Owens,
his name is probably more likely to be recognized than Andrew Clavin or Jake Crane or 75% of the
lineup of Glenn Beck's Blaze TV, Walsh's former home. Matt Walsh's broader success can be easily
understood by comparing him to one of his Daily Wire colleagues, the somehow even less talented
Michael Knowles. If anyone knows who Michael Knowles is, it's because of comments he made
back at CPAC in March of 2023 when he called for the eradication of transgenderism.
Transgenderism must be eradicated from public life entirely, the whole preposterous ideology
at every level. This statement is a very clear example of getting as close as possible to calling
for genocide without being explicit about it. The implication is clear though, to remove trans
people from public life. It raises the obvious question of, what happens to the people who say
being trans is a core part of their identity? The answer, at least looking at historical examples,
tends to be murder or displacement. In other words, genocide. These comments are genocidal
in character even if they aren't an explicit call for genocide. The grotesque nature of these
comments aside, what this briefly did was tell the world that Michael Knowles exists. Looking at
the headlines for this story we can see pretty clearly that most people weren't aware of who
this guy was even though he had been hosting a show for the Daily Wire since 2017 at this point.
CPAC's speaker calls for eradication of transgenderism and somehow claims he's not
calling for elimination of transgender people. CPAC's speaker sparks alarm with call for
transgenderism to be eradicated. CPAC's speaker calls for eradication of transgenderism. Crowd
goes wild. As a fun aside, when I released my video on the Daily Wire's terror on the prairie,
I put a black bar over Michael Knowles' face in the thumbnail to see if anyone would notice. I
didn't see a single comment mention that. Michael Knowles has been trying to break through the noise
of conservative commentary for years, and in spite of the financial resources behind him,
he's had very little success. The only way he captured anyone's attention at all was to
embrace genocidal rhetoric that had the thinnest layer of plausible deniability. This is how Matt
Walsh did it too. Matt Walsh wasn't quite as brazen as Knowles, but he has similarly built a brand by
demonizing trans people as much as possible, and looking at his history we can see this has been
an issue he's been passionate about for years. And as we saw in the commentary I highlighted earlier,
Matt Walsh is not a sophisticated operator but rather a true believer, so I don't think this
is a simple grift. Instead, I think Matt Walsh is someone who is just lucky. To explain this,
I have to zoom out a little bit though. There's a helpful tool we'll need to understand called
the Overton Window. For those who are unfamiliar, that explains how political discourse exists on
a spectrum that changes over time. What's left-wing today can become right-wing tomorrow and vice versa,
depending on a population's general political leaning. The general political sentiments of a
population are called the Overton Window. Anything outside that window is considered extreme.
So if we're talking about the United States, this can usually be split along party lines,
though it's possible to be further to the left or right in either party and still be part of
mainstream political discourse. But if you go too far, say being an anarchist or an open white
nationalist, you fall right out of the Overton Window and typically have your voice marginalized.
This isn't a value judgment by the way, just a statement of how this window works.
Anarchists are cool and interesting people. White nationalists are scum though, and I am judging
them for being terrible. If I were to place Matt Walsh on this spectrum, we'd probably put him
somewhere around here, particularly if we're talking about trans issues. And keep in mind,
this is an image of commonly accepted political discourse, not personal feelings or subtext of the
figure we're talking about. So dog whistles and masks, sadly, are in play, even if you're someone
who can spot them. They work, and that's why people use them. And sadly, anti-trans rhetoric
is broadly accepted on the right wing, so long as you aren't too obvious with the calls for genocide.
You notice Matt Walsh is just on the side of acceptability when it comes to anti-trans rhetoric.
He'll get pretty close to that line, making a lot of extreme statements, but he's savvy enough to
couch it in a plausible deniability that keeps him from falling outside the Overton window of
discourse. There are dozens of political commentators being bankrolled by millionaires and billionaires
trying to influence the discourse. Most of them don't succeed because their talking points don't
animate people enough. There are lots of reasons for this, and it varies from person to person,
but the short version is that their particular niche doesn't animate enough of the base.
Matt Walsh happened upon the anti-trans discord with his What is a Woman movie,
even talking about trans people for years, but this key success made him the face of a major
culture war issue. It's not just that he's anti-trans, but he's anti-trans in a way where he gets
as close to the line as possible while appearing not to cross it. Matt Walsh's success exists
entirely because of the moment he finds himself in, and getting very lucky with that movie.
In this way, pushback against him ironically keeps him relevant. If the issue of trans people were
a little more settled in people's minds and anti-trans sentiment were more commonplace,
he would lose relevance and no one would care about him. And if it were less hospitable to
be anti-trans publicly, then he would be shunned as a pariah and would similarly lose his position.
He needs to be in this extreme position to have any sense of relevancy. And while he is relevant
and popular, he could be used to animate the political base, which can be used to fuel
political change. While the far right may not be in danger of going left, they sometimes need to
be motivated to vote and organize for various causes, so they need to be riled up with hot
button issues. This is what makes Matt Walsh valuable in the right-wing media space. It's not
the value of his commentary being transformative, it's that he happens to hate the right people at
the right time in the right way that can be used to mobilize political change. Or at least that's
the assumption by the people who finance him. This is how Matt Walsh is useful. And just to
be super clear, Matt Walsh didn't invent hating trans people. And in the grand scheme of things,
his critiques are no more interesting or compelling than any other bigot. He just
happened to come up with a catchy slogan for it. And he managed to stretch out that one-glib question
into a movie. And that's how someone can make a lucrative career living just on the border of
acceptable political discourse. In other words, Matt Walsh's immorality is incredibly lucky.
Looking at the impact of anti-trans rhetoric, we can get a sense of the feelings Walsh is tapping
into. Opinion polls regarding transgender people and trans issues varies quite a bit.
In a recent Washington Post poll conducted with the KFF, they found anti-trans legislation was
quite popular, particularly when it comes to certain types of gender affirming care for
trans kids. An excerpt from that article reads, nearly seven in ten adults said they opposed
allowing children ages 10 to 14 access to medication that stops the body from going
through puberty and nearly six in ten oppose giving 15 to 17 year olds access to hormone
therapy. There was, however, majority support for gender affirming counseling or therapy,
with more than six in ten supporting this for both age groups. But looking at other polling,
for instance, a poll conducted by PBS NewsHour shows different results. In this case, the question
being asked is, do you support legislation that criminalizes providing gender affirming care for
minors? The results in this poll was that 54% opposed the bans while 43% supported them.
This comparison was made in an article for The Stranger by Alex Corin, a journalist and
researcher on transphobia. She highlighted how this poll from the Post and KFF suffers from issues
similar to polls on abortion, how questions are asked on polls matter and results shift accordingly.
She brings up another point of comparison. In a Mason Dixon poll in Kentucky, there was an even
more pronounced result when it was asked, would you support or oppose a proposed Kentucky law
that would allow the state to overrule parents' decision to obtain certain health care for their
transgender teenager, such as certain medications that can regulate the onset of puberty? In this
case, 71% opposed the legislation and 21% supported it. As Corin describes in her article, rather than
just throw certain polls out in hold of the ones we want, looking at all of this information reveals
to us that what matters to people is who decides in these issues. While people may oppose certain
types of gender affirming care personally, that does not necessarily reveal any desire for the
state to intervene and prevent parents from deciding what's best for their child. And there
are still more polls that reveal a general fatigue over trans issues being emphasized in political
discourse. Here's an excerpt from the website Roll Call about one recent poll from Data for
Progress. When asked about the more than 400 pieces of legislation working their way through
state houses aimed at limiting the rights of transgender and gay people in America,
64% of respondents, including 55% of Republicans, sided with the statement,
this is too much legislation, politicians are playing political theater, and using these
bills as a wedge issue. Compared with 25% who agreed with the statement, this is the right
amount of legislation, politicians are dealing with a real danger that needs to be addressed.
This figure rose to 78% among respondents who know a transgender person. And that last part is
especially interesting because just knowing a transgender person seems to have a dramatic
impact in all polling for supporting transgender people in general, and also underscores the
importance of representation. Seeing who these people are and the struggles they go with creates
greater degrees of sympathy and support. Other results show that the younger generation is
generally pro-trans rights, with some predicting a massive change on the topic within 10 years.
All that said, it's also true that many people are still ignorant regarding trans issues,
and remain susceptible to messengers like Walsh. That's part of what makes him particularly
valuable. One funny thing I noticed while watching Matt Walsh was he often fought back against other
figures on the right when they would criticize an emphasis on the culture wars. Okay, understand
this, if you are doing this whole focus on the economy, not the culture war thing, you are
repeating the same talking point that the GOP establishment has used for 40 years. It's because
the Republican Party, who are supposed to be ostensibly the leaders of the conservative
movement for decades now, they've been saying the culture doesn't matter, all that matters is the
economy and foreign policy, let's worry about that. And so they surrendered the culture to the left,
and now here we are. The defensiveness and lack of historical literacy here is pretty funny. The
right has been harping about culture war issues for decades. They brought them up with gay
marriage, prayer in school, and all sorts of religiously themed topics I would assume Matt
Walsh would know something about. Obviously what Matt Walsh is concerned with here is
sliding into political relevancy. Without the culture wars and specifically anti-trans rhetoric,
no one would care about what this guy has to say, so he has to cling on to it for dear life.
But the reason there's a pushback against culture war issues by the right,
at least when it comes to trans issues, is that it's a very poor political performer.
In a sub-stacked post from a user named Ettingermentum titled The Modern Electoral History of
Transphobia, we get a lengthy breakdown in how many times transphobia has failed at the ballot
box in the United States, most recently in the 2022 midterm elections. What much of the polling
highlighted early in this video fails to capture, and something I wish people would understand
broadly about any opinion poll, is that just because someone feels a way about an issue
doesn't mean that that issue will influence how they vote, or how they'll even politically
organize. For example, if ketchup had a 90% approval rating and a politician said they were
going to ban it, it probably wouldn't influence the election if voters were convinced that that
same politician had a plan that would revitalize the economy for working people. Issues like the
economy are far more important in elections than what you put on your french fries. But that speaks
to something that Ettingermentum brings up in their article. Here's an excerpt.
While general public apathy towards the issue means that voters are exceedingly unlikely
to vote for republicans because of anti-trans messaging, as has been extensively demonstrated,
it also means that politicians who pass anti-trans laws are not likely to face significant electoral
pushback over it. And that would explain why so many anti-trans laws are being passed in
red states with limited pushback. People are generally not motivated by transphobia,
whether it's to take part of the transphobia or to stand against it. And while that's great for
the former, it's tragic for the latter. These are issues that people should want to take a stand for,
to stand up for the humanity of people. And the saddest part of these polls are the people who
just seem willing to not care. And so even if someone like Bat Walsh has limited appeal,
it's important for people to know what sort of hate a goal like this is spreading because even
if it won't swing a federal election, it's still something that impacts any transgender person
living in a red state or any transgender person more broadly who's been a victim of harassment
or a hate crime. If anti-trans legislation isn't going to move the needle electorally, it does raise
the question of why do it at all. And the answer seems to be, according to Antony Grementum,
is that some of these people are just true believers. Here's another excerpt from the article.
Much like the old demographics as destiny theory that captured the Democratic Party in the 2000s
and 2010s, anti-trans or more broadly anti-woke lore is the right kind of story for the right
political class at just the right time. I swear, I thought of using that phrase to describe Bat
Walsh before reading this article, but it does speak to how his success really is a product of
very fortunate timing. And while a lot of this is being presented in this video as how it impacts
electoral politics, I do want to stress there are many other real threats impacting transgender
people outside of legislation. The frightening number of hate crimes, including murder, is fostered
by anti-trans render spread by the likes of Walsh. I'm not entirely sure he's savvy enough to be aware
that his hobby horse has no real electoral heft, but if he is, that's even worse, because instead
of being a willing tool of the right-wing media ecosystem that serves as a PR wing for the
Republican Party, he's instead using this platform he's lucked into to make as much money as he can
while spreading hatred that actively harms transgender people. There is a bit of a silver
lining here in that one-trick ponies rarely have any staying power. While transphobia will be a
long-term struggle, the fight against mediocre bigots like Matt Walsh probably won't be as long.
So the whole point of this video, I guess, is to remind everyone that the fight for trans rights
is about more than this guy, and while it's important to oppose him, the real problem is
the moment we find ourselves in when trans people are continuously under threat. Going back to the
point I mentioned earlier, most people aren't motivated by trans issues. Not caring is perfectly
fine in a better world, letting people live how they choose without making your business is a very
good and valid position. But right now we live in a world that's hostile to trans people, and that
threat is multiplied for a number of intersectional identities. So it's not just trans men and trans
women who are under threat, but also non-binary people, transgender people who are POCs or have
disabilities, or just any transgender person who might need somebody to fight alongside them.
So I guess the message I hope you all take away from this is that, when fighting for the rights
of others, it's less about fighting against a certain man and more about fighting in a certain
moment. A big thanks to all the trans creators who blended their voice to this video. I hope
you all check out their channels listed below. Once upon a time, I told myself I would never
make a video discussing Matt Walsh because he is so boring and untalented and inconsequential.
Sadly, things have changed to the point where he actually is worth some attention and some
pushback, though hopefully this video contextualized him in a way that reveals he's not so big and
scary as he poses he's just a lucky dude who happened upon a lucrative career hating the right
people. That's something to keep in mind for others of his ilk in the future. Although a year
from now I find myself making a video about Michael Knowles, someone get a wellness check
ready because I will be very, very sad that I have to even discuss that loser. If you would
like to support me, consider joining my Patreon. You'll get lots of fun bonuses, including early
access to videos, your name in the credits, and other neat stuff that I come up with every
now and again. And if you would like to support this channel in a non-monetary fashion, you could
like, comment, subscribe, hit the bell for notifications, and if you need an idea for
comment below, how about shouting out one of your favorite trends, creators, whether they're
streamer, youtuber, whatever, in the comment section below. Thank you all so much for watching.
