What makes a classic TV show?
Some shows take the world by storm, becoming fan favorites remembered for generations.
Others are slow starters, growing a following before reaching that tipping point of becoming
a fixture on TV screens around the world.
And some never reached those heights, achieving cult status among a select group of influential
people.
Arrested Development has a unique distinction of not only achieving that cult status, but
parlaying that into a divisive return, only to have that change how people remember a
series that was being called a future classic.
The story of Arrested Development, a show about a family that fell apart, held together
by one man, will be put together by this one man, trying to understand how we decide what
makes a TV show a classic.
In the early 2000s, reality television was on the ascent, and that got director and former
TV star Ron Howard thinking of new ways of doing television.
Something that used this reality TV grammar to tell scripted comedies with more depth
and layers, while also cutting back on costs.
A different kind of situation comedy that would be packed with more jokes, you know,
more funny situations, and a less traditional feel than what you get with a normal kind
of half hour sitcom.
Through the production company he started with Brian Grazer, Imagine Entertainment, Howard
approached a number of producers with this concept, and it was Mitchell Hurwitz who connected
most with the idea.
But I wanted to use that savings in expense and time to shoot a lot of scenes and to try
to get at family enmeshment and to try to get at character that went beyond stock character.
Hurwitz was particularly attracted to the idea of creating characters with greater depth
than in your typical sitcom.
Hurwitz had been a veteran of many sitcoms including The Golden Girls, The Golden Palace,
The John Larraket Show, The Ellen Show, and several other programs that didn't start
with V. One small project of note was a 1999 series called Everything's Relative which
aired on NBC.
Notable not just for starring Jeffrey Tambor, who would be part of the cast of Arrested
Development, but also for acting as a half step between the sitcoms of the past that
Hurwitz had started his career working in and what sitcoms of the future would eventually
look like.
It's a strange combination of the single camera style with an awkward laugh track thrown
in and the plot of a comedy writer forced to make his dysfunctional family work would
very much echo what would eventually become Arrested Development.
Although six episodes were produced, it only ran for four before it was cancelled.
But it was this project that would help inform the pitch Hurwitz took to Imagine Entertainment.
Hurwitz's original idea for Arrested Development was a dysfunctional family going from riches
to rags, though many of the particulars went through a number of changes before it all
came together.
Other aspects of the show came from Hurwitz's own life.
Having grown up in California, the famous Bluth banana stand was based on a chocolate
chip business he started at twelve called The Chipyard, and the street that stand began
on, Balboa Boulevard, would be the name of the apartment complex that Lucille Booth would
call home.
The character of Maybee was even named after Hurwitz's two daughters, May and Phoebe.
Outside of his own life, Hurwitz was also inspired by the Enron scandal that saw a massive energy
company crumble when it committed an elaborate accounting fraud scheme.
The Blue Family at the center of the series would similarly be watching their own business
crumble all around them.
Arrested Development was always supposed to be different.
Instead of a finely polished product, rehearsed throughout the week, and then recorded on
a soundstage, it would be filmed on location with little rehearsal.
Scenes were written and rewritten on the fly, and the look of the show mimicked a documentary,
one shot with two cameras, often moving through scenes scrambling to get reactions.
Jason Bateman was cast as Michael Bluth, the one son holding the Bluth family together.
Bateman's first on-screen acting job was at the age of twelve on Little House on the
Prairie.
He wanted to appear in Silver Spoons and It's Your Move.
Throughout the 90s, he had a series of failed TV pilots, creating some reluctance to cast
him as Michael.
But when he auditioned, they found he was the perfect fit for the relatively level-headed
member of the Bluth family, the man who wants nothing more than to leave that family, only
to be constantly dragged back into their drama.
They are going to keep Dad in prison, at least until this gets all sorted out.
Also, the attorney said that they're going to have to put a halt in the company's expense
account.
Interesting, I would have expected that after they're keeping Dad in jail.
Portia de Rossi was cast as Lindsay Bluth, Michael's twin sister.
De Rossi had made her debut in the 1994 movie, Sirens, and before Arrested Development, she
was a regular on Ally McBeal.
As Lindsay, she was the socialite who spent more time creating the illusion of being a
philanthropist than actually doing anything aside from shopping.
I'm kind of the charitable one of the family.
I think it's best if you got a job.
Oh come on, I'm a parent, I care about my daughter every bit as much as Michael cares
about his son.
What grade am I in?
What kind of job?
Will Arnett played the eldest of the Bluth siblings, George Oscar Bluth Jr. or Job.
Job was one of the tougher roles to be cast, with none of the actors auditioning, managing
to find a suitable voice for the character.
Arnett, who only had a few credits to his name, most notably two episodes on The Sopranos,
managed to breathe life into the impossibly arrogant and intensely vulnerable Job.
And Job is quite the magician.
This is the magic trick, huh?
Illusion, Michael.
Mmm, trick is something a whore does for money.
Michael Cera was cast as Michael's son, George Michael.
Only 15 by the time Arrested Development premiered, he had already appeared in several movies
and TV shows.
George Michael is the timid, well-meaning teen who is struggling to grow up with a
father who doesn't quite get him.
George Michael is also nursing a confusing attraction to his cousin.
I'm tempted to kiss again so we can teach him a lesson.
Why would that teach them a lesson?
No, I mean, to freak them out.
Yeah, but that doesn't make any sense.
Well, isn't that what makes it funny?
I'm laughing.
Let's go fish, you know.
Alia Shawkat was cast as maybe Funke, Lindsay's daughter.
Even though she was only 14 when the show debuted, she'd already come off a nearly
40-episode run on the series State of Grace.
She is bolder than her cousin, seeming to lack much empathy as her antics fail to catch
the attention of her absent-minded parents.
Tony Hill was cast as the youngest Bluth sibling, Byron Bluth, better known as Buster.
Relatively unknown at the time, Hill had guest spots on a few programs, but Arrested Development
would be his first major role.
Buster is an extremely awkward mother boy who spends much of the series in a state
of perpetual confusion.
David Cross played Tobias Funke, Lindsay's husband and maybe his father, although creator
Mitch Hurwitz claims to have offered the well-traveled stand-up Cross any role he wanted,
Cross said it was the roles of Job and Buster that were suggested to him.
Regardless, it was Tobias that spoke to Cross as a character.
After a beef struggle with the network to make sure Tobias would have what would be
his signature mustache, Cross slipped into the role of a former therapist turned actor
who had a very unusual way of choosing his words.
Jeffrey Tambor was originally asked to only play the role of family patriarch George
Oscar Bluth Sr. for a single episode, but the role was such a good fit for Tambor that
he jumped at the chance to become part of the principal cast.
A veteran and beloved from his time as Hank Kingsley on The Larry Sanders Show, Tambor
created a George Sr. that was both domineering and slimy, all from the comfort of his prison
cell.
Jessica Walter made up the final member of the principal cast as Lucille Bluth, the sharp-tongued
matriarch of the Bluth family.
Having been acting for over 40 years, Walter was the most experienced of the cast, notably
appearing in Clint Eastwood's directorial debut, Play Misty for Me.
Lucille Bluth is a woman so wealthy and out of touch with the common man that she has
trouble acclimating to her family's new financial reality.
Although technically not a member of the cast, Arrested Development did have a regular narrator
voiced by Ron Howard.
Originally Howard was only a placeholder, but his performance as a detached narrator
was so effective and was very charming to the network, he became a permanent fixture
for the series.
I actually borrowed from National Geographic.
I thought it should be approached with a kind of a sociological or anthropological mindset.
I think this is the same narrator who would be doing something about the indigenous inhabitants
of the Amazon basin, and then their next job would be to come and talk about the Bluth
family.
Arrested Development had a very rich world of recurring characters, and it would be nearly
impossible to list all of them here.
But the ones who appeared most frequently were the family's lawyer Barry Zuckercorn,
played by Henry Winkler, news anchor John Beard, a local Los Angeles news anchor who
was portraying a fictionalized version of himself, Liza Minnelli as Lucille Bluth's
rival, Lucille Austero, also known as Lucille II, Mae Whitman, played George Michael's
season 2 love interest Ann Veal, and Justin Grant Wade, appeared as high school jock,
Steve Holt.
There was also this mysterious janitor, played by Martin Moll.
He always gets me to Gene Parmesan, how could I forget him?
Debuting on November 2nd, 2003, in an episode titled, Pilot, we meet the Bluth family just
as it seems as though it's ready to fall apart.
The cast is introduced through some narration and a few key interactions, and we find out
that this episode is about Michael being snubbed for a partnership at his family's business
shortly before George Sr. is arrested.
The family looks to Michael to run the business.
Even though he wants to leave for the sake of his son, he stays behind.
Of course George Michael might also be motivated by the new crush he has on his cousin, Mae
B.
This along with many character dynamics would be explored throughout the season.
Unlike other sitcoms that tended to keep a fixed premise and placed it in novel situations
in each episode, Arrested Development would introduce dynamics that would run and change
as we followed the adventures of the Bluths.
Perhaps this would mean dynamics that ran through the entire series, sometimes only
for a season or even just a few episodes.
George Michael's crush on his cousin went the distance, sometimes becoming the focus
of his character and other times just humming along in the background, but it was always
safe to assume that, no matter where you are in the series, George Michael is harboring
some feelings for Mae B.
The pilot was directed by Anthony and Joe Russo, and you may be more familiar with their
work on the highest grossing movie of all time.
They were a major part of establishing the look of Arrested Development, using a cinema
verite style to create the impression of a documentary crew in the thick of it.
If the series looks like it was Mae cheaply, that was by design, as multi-camera sitcoms
at the time were becoming increasingly expensive to produce.
The quick cuts and rushed production meant that footage sometimes lacked the polish to
tell a coherent story, which is part of the reason a narrator was used to fill in the
gaps.
This was a necessity, with shows often having
thirty minutes of footage needing to be cut down to twenty-two minutes for broadcast.
It was often suggested that this might be attributed to the actor's improving, and
while this was the original intention of the series, the writing was so strong that
very little of that happened as the series progressed.
Alternate takes often came from writers coming up with new jokes on the spot.
New jokes and missing plot points were also recorded after the fact.
Later inserted into scenes, while a speaking character's back is turned to the camera.
In addition to the structure and style of the series, the pilot also establishes some
important ways it would differentiate itself from other sitcoms.
Families that don't get along weren't an entirely novel concept at this point, even
if the opposite were still more common.
But arrested development added some subjects to the idea by placing Michael and his son
in a literal fake home, a model home created by the Bluth Company to sell their new development
project, Sudden Valley.
One of the big charms of the series was its ability to take seemingly meaningless jokes,
references, and build on them several episodes or several seasons later.
Sometimes it was just a running gag, but sometimes it also meant expanding on a moment to create
an entire plotline.
An example from the pilot is Michael interviewing for a new job at Sitwell Housing.
What was originally just a placeholder company was later revealed to be a major rival to
the Bluth Company, led by Stan Sitwell, played by Ed Begley Jr.
Themetically, the show also had some interesting
things to say about how the upper class are often just as silly as the rest of us and
got to where they were by being willing to step over others and each other.
And there's the very interesting fusion between family and business throughout the
series, connecting love and commerce with disastrous consequences.
When George Sr. tells Michael that he didn't promote him to protect him, we find out it
wasn't purely out of concern for his son.
And as we'll see throughout the series, the Bluths are never beneath screwing one
another over for financial gain, or in some cases, to protect the company.
The pilot episode for Arrested Development did so much heavy lifting I can't possibly
cover it all here, and the rest of the series is similarly dense.
As we'll see as we move forward, this was often weighed more to its complexity rather
than its depth, and it was the show's complexity that played a role in it becoming a revered
classic that struggled to find a wider audience.
One of the central dynamics of the series, especially in its first season, is the struggle
between the Bluth siblings and their parents.
One of the ways it manifests itself is in the rivalry between Job and Michael.
Job and Michael butt heads in the early episode over Job's girlfriend, Marta, played by
Leonor Varela, and then later by Patricia Velasquez when scheduling conflicts arose
for the first actress.
Job's attitude towards his girlfriend is less than attractive.
On the other hand, Michael is completely smitten with Marta, and he's conflicted
over the fact that he wants to date his brother's girlfriend.
As Marta develops feelings for Michael, she's overheard expressing them to her mother by
Job.
Spanish speakers are probably head of the joke on this one.
Job and Michael come to blows in the following episode.
Finally Marta becomes a real character, realizing the Bluths are awful.
This rejection brings the two together, until we see them at each other's throats over
who gets to run the company.
Throughout this stretch of episodes in the first half of season one, there's very little
that Marta does except play the dutiful and eventually conflicted girlfriend.
It's hard to understand what she ever saw in Job, and that a few gestures from Michael
sweep her off her feet make her seem as though this is a woman, who is a successful actress
by the way, who has had some underwhelming experiences with romance.
What it also reveals is that she's more of a prop being passed around so we can learn
more about the relationship between Michael and Job.
That this eventually gets replaced by who gets to be in charge of the company reveals
that their rivalry is a product of their own bitter feelings towards one another, and also
how inconsequential Marta was as a character.
The joke about confusing the word hermano for a name also reveals just how horribly
self-absorbed these characters are.
It's a word that should come very easily to anyone with a Spanish-speaking girlfriend.
But Job is completely oblivious, and Michael, for as charmed as he supposedly is by Marta,
can't be bothered to learn the language he speaks, although he does sort of try.
Michael and Job's rivalry isn't the only dynamic we see in these early episodes though.
We also get a glimpse of the grotesque as we learn about the relationship between Buster
and Lucille.
Third dynamic is created by Lucille's need to be needed, and Buster is the one paying
the price for that need.
Buster breaks away from his mother by becoming romantically involved with Lucille's best
friend and rival, Lucille Ostero.
While this gesture from Buster wasn't entirely intentional, he was supposed to be bidding
on his mother, Buster and Lucille too do develop their own strange dynamic.
Lucille fights back by replacing Buster with a boy adopted from Korea, An-Yong.
An-Yong is the Korean word for hello.
The parallel here between An-Yong and Marta is pretty clear – they're both pawns in
the game the Blue Family is playing.
Mark that way by not only being outside the family, but outside the broader cultural context
the Blues find themselves in.
In contrast, Lucille too is a far more developed character, because she lives in that white
upper-class world – the world the series is giving us a glimpse into.
It reveals the general disinterest these people have for those who are outside their bubble.
Even though An-Yong hangs around until the end of the series, the number of appearances
he makes dwindles as time goes on, and his role in the finale is more of a bit part for
a character who is ostensibly part of the Bluth family.
In that way, along with basically reusing the same joke about the Bluths not understanding
a word spoken in another language, the show reveals itself to be part of that same world
as the Bluths, concerned with the Bluth family but not so much with the people they step
on.
They're just there to prove a point.
The Bluth siblings are very much aware of how their parents have messed up their lives.
They even bond with Buster when he dares to criticize their mother.
I'm mom and I want to shoot down everything you say so I feel good about myself.
Look who's ragging on the old lady.
Hey!
Finally!
I'm an uptight ******!
Buster!
******!
You old horny slut!
Well no one's gonna top that.
Lucille Bluth is not likely to win Mother of the Year.
In the first season, she even attempts to pin a car accident that was absolutely her
fault on Michael.
The original premise of the series was a family alienated from one another by its wealth,
learning how to get along.
While the first half of that statement is present, the second half never quite comes
to fruition.
They're more a family stuck together sharing their misery, and Lucille is the perfect
representative of that.
Lucille is completely out of touch with the world outside of her wealthy socialite bubble.
I mean it's one banana, Michael.
What could it cost?
Ten dollars?
While lines like that reveal Lucille's detachment from the wider world, her relationship with
her children is similarly detached, held together not through love, but through manipulation.
I just want my children to love me.
Stop lying.
Stop manipulating.
Just be nicer.
What?
I'm a horrible mother.
No, no, my, you crazy mother.
That's crazy, Todd.
You're a fantastic mother.
You're the mother.
George Sr. isn't a whole lot better.
While he may be in jail for most of the first season, his brief trips out of prison reveal
someone less interested in the welfare of his family and more about keeping himself
from being locked up for good.
George Sr. is a patriarch in many senses of the word.
Head of the family, head of the company, and he literally portrays God in one episode.
Although when he uses that opportunity to make his escape, the episode very cutely reveals
that this is a world where you can't trust in even a heavenly father.
George Sr. and Lucille are, quite clearly, awful parents, and the show is very clear
to present them as two people not to be trusted.
And more than just bad parents, they represent authority and status more broadly, being wealthy
and running the Bluth Company.
George Sr. as a boss is tough to get a grasp on since he's arrested in the first episode
of the series, but the culture created at the Bluth Company is one set up for a domineering
boss to control his employees the way a domineering father controls his children.
For example, using former employee J. Walter Weatherman, played by Steve Ryan, to teach
his kids lessons.
When the younger Bluths step into positions of authority, rather than commiserating with
the workers knowing what it's like for George Sr. and Lucille to treat them like children,
they instead adopt the role of their parents.
When Michael takes charge of the company, he leads his employees around like sheep.
The Bluths also have family discussions in front of them, as if they aren't even there.
Job even organizes the workers not to improve their conditions, but instead to undermine
Michael as the one in charge.
And going back to Michael, even though he's presented as the responsible one, he expects
his workers to work without getting paid, something that reveals a deep level of disrespect
even from the normal Bluth.
In spite of whatever hardships the Bluths place on one another, they still adhere to
their social standing, even when those hardships should be teaching them another lesson entirely.
What they learn is to not stand in solidarity with the oppressed, but to claim their birthright
as oppressors.
Early in the season, Michael discovers a truth about his father.
Michael knew his father was guilty of something, but he had no idea it was this bad.
And that's another recurring theme of this series, people who seem bad being revealed
as even worse.
One late addition in season 1 was George Senior's identical twin brother, Oscar George Bluth.
The introduction of Oscar came about because creator Mitch Hurwitz happened to see Jeffrey
Tambor in a wig, and he thought it looked interesting.
So Oscar was written into the show, giving Tambor two recurring characters to play, which
is a pretty big step up from initially being cast to a single episode guest role.
The reason the Bluth company looms so heavily over the family, defining their relationships,
and shaping their goals, is in part because aside from Michael, none of them have a sense
for business.
This is a family that has largely lived off the largesse of the unethical George Senior,
never having to consider what living in the real world means.
Throughout season 1, we see how this dynamic has created a family unable to do more than
occasionally band together against an outside threat.
The rest of the time, they spend bickering and plotting against each other to take control
of the company, out of fear that this loss of power will mean they will have to know
what it feels like to not be rich.
Family isn't there for love or comfort, so much as they're there to help make you
money.
It's very clearly in this episode where it's revealed that George Senior monetized
the rivalry between Job and Michael in a series of tapes called Boy Fights.
And more than the alienation caused by their wealth, we see how the Bluth company is so
concerned with making money that they're willing to deal with a dictator like Saddam
Hussein.
Wealth and the pursuit of it has shattered every part of the lives of the Bluth family.
They don't trust one another, they live in deluded fantasies about themselves, and
have created a company whose workers have been conditioned to behave like children.
In short, the Bluths represent everything bad about a society fueled by greed, living
in a twisted version of the American greed that creates parodies of families as a means
to financial gain.
It's almost mocking any workplace where a boss will come in and tell everyone, we're
like a family.
Except it's a family where a father controls all the children and takes most of the money
for himself.
In the season finale, Michael once again wants to leave his family, only for circumstances
to convince him to stay.
With his trial still some time away, George Sr. seemingly has a heart attack and is hospitalized.
And that's when the family realized that George Sr. wasn't dead, but was fleeing
the country that he loved so very much.
This is a nice setup for the next season, which is as good a segue as any to talk about
another unique trait of the series, the previews for the next episode.
What was especially fun about these is they almost never appeared in the next episode,
rather they were fun jokes for an episode to end on, playing on whatever happened in
the episode itself.
These were originally added because Mitch Hurwitz wanted to get test audiences to say
they wanted to see what would happen on the next episode.
These previews also reveal a loose relationship with continuity, something the series would
be less comfortable with as time went on.
The first season of Arrested Development was about establishing its style and tone, demanded
much of viewers to follow plotlines and jokes through many twists and turns, all to arrive
at the core of a series that had a basic message of how wealth can poison a family.
It was a very new way of presenting an old message, and it was that pairing of a new
style and familiar message that won the attention of critics.
Here's an example of a review of the first episode from a writer at the New York Times
shortly before the show premiered.
The Bluth heirs are eccentric and warped, but they are not hothouse child prodigies
like the Tenenbaum siblings.
They are nouveau riche misfits, the ewings of Dallas as seen by Bunuel, and they are
quite amusing.
As the year went on, critics became increasingly enamored with the show.
At the TV Land Awards, it won the Future Classic Award.
It wasn't the best predictor for classic television.
For every year in which it would go to a massive hit like The Office, there would be other
years where it would go to flash in the pans like Heroes.
That said, the award meant enough to Arrested Development that the acceptance speech may
be nominated on to the first season DVD release of the show.
This sentiment would be carried by critics all the way into the Emmys, where Arrested
Development was nominated for four awards and won three.
Mitch Hurwitz won for writing in a comedy series, The Russo Brothers won for directing
in a comedy series, and the show itself won Best Comedy Series, beating out the likes
of Curb Your Enthusiasm, Everybody Loves Raymond, Sex in the City, and Will and Grace.
Special attention should be given to how Hurwitz ended his acceptance speech for Best Comedy
Series.
Saying let's watch it was a reminder that, in this absolute love-bomb of critical praise
from the TV critics, very few people were actually watching the show, a sentiment that
can be seen during interviews at the time.
My dream has always been to work on a show, regardless of what that show is, that holds
Malcolm's numbers, and if it doesn't happen, you move on, you move on.
So just how bad were the ratings?
While the first episode debuted to just under 8 million viewers, by the end of the first
season it was down to less than 6.
Its average for the year was 6.2 million viewers.
Its lead-in, Malcolm in the Middle, while not a ratings juggernaut, was still doing significantly
better beginning the season with 10 million viewers, ending with 8 million viewers, and
having an average of 8.35 million viewers.
There was a small uptake in the ratings on March 17th when the show was given the coveted
spot following American Idol, giving the show its highest rating ever with 9.6 million viewers.
But even though this one episode was moved to the middle of the week for a one-off attempt
to garner a new audience, it ended up losing nearly 60% of the people who were watching
American Idol.
And looking at ratings for the following weeks, it seems none of that 3 million audience
surplus seemed to follow Arrested Development back to its Sunday night time slot.
Aside from cops, Arrested Development was the lowest-rated show on Fox not to get cancelled.
In overall viewing numbers, it was ranked 105th.
Things weren't looking good ratings-wise.
In an article from Entertainment Weekly, some concerns were expressed by the network.
Fox Entertainment president Gail Berman admits Arrested Development's numbers are
troubling.
Still, she insists the network is an abandoning hope.
Yet.
Look, I love this show, she says.
We're trying to figure out every possible way we can help it.
Hurwitz in interviews years later expressed that he believed the network was considering
cancelling the show but only relented after all of the critical acclaim, particularly
because of the awards it was winning.
Therefore they felt like they had to keep it on the air.
By winning the Emmy for Best Comedy series, along with two others, it was hoped that these
successes would turn things around for the series, giving it a bigger profile, attracting
a wider audience, and telling a huge comeback story.
They didn't, but it would have been.
Season 2 opens with Michael heading back to the family because he isn't sure they really
got how serious he was about leaving.
I think we're still there.
We're going back.
Michael is once again trapped with his family, only now he's implicated in George Sr's
dealings with Saddam Hussein.
And evidence he needs to clear himself is stolen by George Sr, effectively throwing
his own son under the bus to save himself.
He's not a great dad.
George Sr's ties to Saddam Hussein, revealing the interest of private business in earning
a profit over national security, is just one of many political observations made throughout
the series.
In the same episode, we see Buster enlist into the army by Lucille when she's confronted
by a legally distinct version of Michael Moore.
Although Lucille would later regret it, it does
underscore the desperation of the US military if they're willing to accept a guy like
Buster into their ranks.
As the next two seasons progress, the political commentary gets increasingly obvious.
The Patriot Act, a controversial piece of post-9-11 legislation that gave the US government
greater surveillance power, is mocked when it's used to obtain a photo of bunkers with
weapons of mass destruction, not realizing that this photo is actually of Tobias' balls.
George Sr is found in a hole similar to the one Saddam Hussein was hiding in, and at one
point he records a video that very much presents him looking like Osama bin Laden.
The beliefs even find themselves in a rock, meeting Saddam Hussein impersonators living
in the Iraqi version of the model home, complete with what appears to be a weapon of mass destruction.
I haven't even mentioned references to the cut and run talking point, the George W. Bush
mission accomplished photo op, the Rumsfeld photo parody, and so many more.
Arrested development was diving into political comedy in a way no other sitcom at the time
was.
Towards the end of the third season, we also learn that George Sr has secretly been working
with the US government this whole time.
Yeah, we got some guy named George Bluth to build houses down there so we could wire them.
The Bluths are portrayed as entrenched in the government establishment, and are also
working with Saddam Hussein.
Although Hussein's reign wasn't welcomed by the United States when it began, his war
with Iran did make him a temporary ally, an uneasy partnership that went south when Iraq
went on to invade Kuwait.
The Bluths represent the capriciousness of these relationships, dependent on economic
ties as oil can be traced to the root of many of these real-world conflicts.
Although Arrested Development was more concerned with showing how incredibly silly all of
this was, it also revealed a cynicism towards American foreign policy that was rarely seen
in the immediate post-9-11 era.
It's a sharp rebuke of the unthinking patriotism that you often saw on TV shows, instead opting
to portray how the American government and big businesses are happy to collude with supposed
enemies if it meant keeping the price of oil down.
Another big part of this series is the increasingly sour relationship between Tobias and Lindsay.
As you may or may not know, Lindsay and I have hit a bit of a rough patch.
Really?
When did that start?
Well, I don't want to blame it all on 9-11, but...
We get a hint of why their marriage is failing in the first episode of this series.
You're gay.
No, no.
No, I'm not.
I'm not gay.
No, Lindsay, how many times must we have this?
No.
Assumptions about Tobias' sexuality come up again many times throughout the series'
run, usually because of his unusual choice of words.
The irony here being that Tobias, as a trained analyst and therapist, isn't able to infer
some deeper meaning behind the unusual way he speaks.
Tobias actively rejecting expectations of his gender leads people to suspect he may
be gay, or the fact that he's a never-nude, which means he can never go anywhere without
wearing a pair of cutoffs, and that he often uses female pronouns when drawing analogies
to himself may even suggest that he's trans.
In her essay on the character, Darcy Dahl, an assistant professor of philosophy at Delta
College, describes how the real lesson here is to not treat Tobias' sexuality or gender
identity as some kind of guessing game, but instead reflect on what that says about the
expectations we place on people.
She writes,
What a person like Tobias shows us is that we needn't conserve ourselves with fitting
into a specific mold.
We need not worry about whether we're too feminine or masculine, nor about whether our
sexuality or personality conforms to normal standards.
Perhaps we should all try to find the Tobias inside of us.
While there are plenty of things in Tobias we can find fault with, such as his neglect
of his daughter, his inability to leave a doomed marriage, or his ridiculous attempts
to try and become an actor, when it comes to his sexuality or gender, he doesn't seem
to be distressed by it.
So how is it anyone else's business?
Even if he does have some kind of deep internal conflicts, instead of telling him what those
are, what he needs is a loving, caring space to explore those feelings himself and find
his own way through them, which again, is something he may not even need.
It's also something he'll never find in the Blue Family.
Lindsay struggles to find a life outside of her marriage with Tobias being asked to leave
the model home.
Like what you see?
I've been looking for those, you're gonna stretch them out.
That's all you can say?
Well, excuse me for liking the way they shaped my junk.
I don't know why, but that's it.
You can pack your junk and get out.
And Tobias has to worm his way back in by posing as a British danny named Mrs. Featherbottom.
Who'd like a banger in the mouth?
Oh, right, I forgot.
Here in the States you call it a sausage in the mouth.
We just call it a sausage.
Although Lindsay assumes Tobias is doing this because he misses maybe, the truth is, either
she nor Tobias are very concerned with the happenings of their daughter.
The Funke family is crumbling because of Tobias' nursing this ridiculous dream about
becoming a doctor, and Lindsay is trying to maintain her life as a philanthropist while
dating outside her marriage, and they're each living off the fumes of the family fortune,
doing nothing to adapt to their new circumstances.
They're so clueless that they're not even sure their marriage is over or not.
Maybe the fact that we don't know if we're together or not is a sign that we should split
again.
Or stay split up.
Okay, forget about Vegas.
We'll stay here and get back together.
This reveals the level of rot that sets in the minds of people living off of fabulous
wealth, particularly when they had nothing to do with its creation.
Tobias and Lindsay have spent much of their adult lives living off their whims, especially
Lindsay's whim to become married to Tobias.
It's a reflection of a life lived without consequences for those whims, and maybe is
left out in the cold, born into a family that barely pays attention to her.
Luckily for her, she manages to connive her way into becoming a teenage movie executive.
These two seasons also saw a number of changes for Buster.
After joining the army, he lost his hand to a dangerous seal attack.
And then a seal bites off his hand.
We also learn that Buster's father may not be George Sr.
A
key part of Buster's story is this bizarre moment where Lucille is confronted.
Oh, this guy always gets me.
Although George Michael's crush on his cousin was firmly established in season one, over
time we see him develop a new interest in Anne Veal.
Michael isn't a fan.
Although much of the series establishes he finds her bland and uninteresting, there is
another side to his lack of an appreciation.
There's something particularly gross about a grown man making jokes about a teenage girl's
weight.
And even though Mae Whitman, for many of her scenes, is wearing a fat suit, or at least
the hips of a fat suit, according to the actress, she just doesn't seem particularly overweight.
It's a strange vocal point for Michael and reveals him to be not quite the nice guy he
tries to present himself as.
It's a subtle reminder that there are no good bluths in the show.
Even while he's romancing Anne, George Michael still has an attraction to his cousin.
When the two of them kiss in the season two finale, the model home literally sinks.
And while this gets awkwardly ignored in season three, we do get some closure for the George
Michael relationship with Anne.
She dumps him.
Third season did show us a relationship blossoming though, and it's perhaps the most controversial
one in the series, Michael's relationship with Rita Leeds, played by Charlize Theron.
Let's just jump right to a fact that the series takes several episodes to reveal.
Rita has a mental health condition that is unfortunately revealed through the use of
an ableist slur.
Michael is unable to notice for several episodes because she's British and incredibly beautiful,
so he assumes she's being quirky.
When he proposes and nearly has sex with her, he only stops after learning the truth.
And then he ends things with Rita.
This half-season arc has gotten some critical attention over the years, though aside from
the use of a certain word and the childlike innocence archetype Rita is slotted into,
the series does make an effort to create a more well-rounded character who has wants
and desires of her own.
It's a level of depth we didn't get to see for other love interests of Michael, such
as Marta.
Although it's worth mentioning that Rita is fabulously wealthy, putting her in a closer
social standing to the Bluths than someone like Marta.
Being white and British I'm sure helps as well.
One thing Arrested Development does that's unlike a lot of other shows is including a
number of characters with disabilities, visible or otherwise.
Even members of the principal cast have disabilities, such as Tobias being a never nude and Buster
losing his hand, while in the case of Buster, laughing at him for losing a hand and treating
him like a machine can seem a bit cruel.
And Tobias being a never nude is just a punchline.
The show's record on characters with disabilities does become more complex when looking at the
supporting cast.
For Slate, Inku Kang wrote,
It's hard to think of another series that features so many different kinds of disabilities
while ensuring that the people with those syndromes are more than their impairments.
In fact, they are, with a single glaring exception, just like the rest of the show's version
of Orange County.
Vain, Vindictive, Pompous, Dishonest, Opportunistic, and or Oblivious.
These characters fit so seamlessly into the rest of the show's universe that they silently
expose how cloying and or exoticizing Hollywood's usual stereotypes about people with disabilities
are.
Inspirational, Asexual, Tragic, Brilliant, or Superpowered, a victim or a villain.
They're impairments poised to be overcome.
One of the major through lines in the series is the impact between generations within a
family.
And this can be seen in one of the key relationships between a father and son.
Michael and his son, George Michael.
Michael is determined to raise his son in a loving way that his father hadn't for
him.
In the second episode, we see how Michael does that when he confers the important responsibility
of running the family banana stand on George Michael.
Don't look at me, Mr. Manager.
It's up to me now.
I'm Mr. Manager.
Manager?
We just say...
I know, but...
It doesn't matter who.
The subtle joke here is that Michael is denying his son the adult Mr. Title, not letting him
grow up.
A key part of the relationship.
The two Bluth boys struggle to communicate with one another.
And while Michael remembers his father being a controlling tyrant, he exercises his own
brand of control over George Michael.
I'll work weeknights, I'll lay people off.
I'll give up my summer, all my summers.
Just tell me what to do, and I'll do it.
Michael realized he had done to his son what his father had done to him.
Michael doesn't want to be like his father, but the way he's raised George Michael is
a lot like the way George Sr. raised him, such as getting them to be incredibly hard
on themselves.
What?
No, you stupid jerk.
Why not?
Dumb.
Dumb.
Dumb, George Michael.
Dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb, dumb.
Whoa, calm down, you two.
It's just a math problem.
Yeah, but if I fail math, there goes my chance at a good job and a happy life full of hard
work.
Like you always say.
I know, but it's my fault I've been pushing him too hard.
It's just dumb, dumb, dumb, Michael, dumb.
Shh, shh, I forgive you.
The intergenerational impact of bad parenting is felt throughout the series.
It's this relationship that carries the heart of the series in the early seasons, and would
be one major thing to keep in mind for the fourth season, though that wouldn't be coming
for another eight years.
Fox finally pulled the plug on Arrested Development, with its third season order being cut to a
lean 13 episodes, the final four bearing in opposition to the Winter Olympics.
The series did make several attempts to appeal to a wider audience, though they never quite
resonated.
The second season also used some very heavy-handed product placement to earn some goodwill and
extra ad revenue for the network.
In the third season, after learning the show was being cancelled, a special Save Our Bluths-themed
episode, titled SOBs, parodied every stunt that shows used to goose the ratings, from
guest stars to shots in 3D.
At one point, they even resorted to begging.
When this episode aired, the writing was more or less on the wall, Fox would no longer be
home for Arrested Development, and the show even made coy remarks about the future of
the show.
At one point we see the show contrast its own brand of complex characters with other
TV sitcoms.
It's almost defensive in how firmly the show asserts itself as something transgressive
in the sitcom's space, and at the time, there was some truth to that.
There was an abundance of mediocre sitcoms on the air, using tired yet familiar gags
to attract audiences looking for something comfortable.
But it wasn't as if other genre-dying shows weren't finding success, and blaming the
audience isn't always the best bet.
Michael himself acknowledges this when he says, In the season 3 finale, Development
Arrested, we find the Bluths once again on a boat, much in the way the series began.
George Sr. is free, and we learn Lucille was the real brains behind the Bluth company,
and Lindsay finds out she's adopted.
Sharp-eyed viewers also noticed a subtle reference to the show's strong sales on DVD.
Other bombshells include learning that Anne is dating Job, who then gets punched in the
face by George Michael, and Michael realizes he succeeded in his mission.
When Michael realizes his son is hurting after learning about Job's betrayal, he
wants to comfort him, and he learns something important when Lucille tries to stop him.
It was at that moment that Michael realized how much he'd sold out.
As Michael runs off to be with his son, Lucille sells the company to stand sit-well in a panic,
as An-Yong is revealed to have betrayed the Bluths.
And the show ends on the crucial relationship.
And the epilogue gives us one last gasp of hope.
And so ends the first three seasons of Arrested Development, hitting the important beats of
how families and businesses should be kept distinct, the sinister relationship between
the American government and the business world, and that wealth can rot the connections within
a family.
But it's hard to focus on the themes of the show with all the loud raging over its
untimely cancellation.
Although there were brief flashes of self-awareness, such as the few words from Michael in the
SOB episode, most of the time this was a show that was clearly kicking and screaming as
it went off the air.
Not that it didn't have some ground for that, but it does complicate a reading of
it.
The text becomes less about the characters and their antics and more about the context
the show found itself in.
While the curtain was coming down on the show for now, with some of its lowest ratings thanks
to the love of critics and a passionate fanbase, it wouldn't be quickly forgotten.
Upon entering its second season, ratings for Arrested Development weren't really helped
by its Emmy wins.
It didn't do any worse, but it didn't do a whole lot better either.
The second season averaged 5.9 million viewers per episode, only slightly down from Season
1's 6.2 million.
Although ratings remained low, the show surprisingly got picked up for a third season in an Entertainment
Weekly article.
Peter Leguri, the new Fox Broadcasting President of Entertainment, said in a statement,
Arrested Development is one of the best comedies on television.
The decision to order another season becomes easy when you consider its amazing cast, creative
brilliance, critical acclaim, and advertiser appeal.
It's my first official pick-up since taking the job and I think it's a great way to start.
One change was the show being moved from Sunday nights at 9.30 to Monday nights at 8.
It fared even worse than the ratings.
The third season would go on to average 3.9 million viewers, losing 2 million from the
previous season, albeit that does include four episodes that were aired directly against
the Olympics, dragging down the overall average.
The low ratings hurt morale on the show, and that was likely made worse when the full season
was cut down to a 13-episode half-season.
Although Mitch Hurwitz was in talks to bring the series to showtime for a fourth season,
ultimately these negotiations fell through.
Part of the reason, as Hurwitz would later explain, was because of his own fatigue running
such a detailed series.
In an interview, he said,
In truth, I had taken it as far as I felt I could as a series.
I told the story I wanted to tell, and we were getting to a point where I think a lot
of the actors were ready to move on.
My first instinct was that it was over when Fox pulled the plug.
I considered continuing the show because I felt I owed that to the fans, but I am determined
to give them some other kind of entertainment that will satisfy them at some point, I hope.
Even though Arrested Development had a record low viewership, the main demographic appears
to have been movie studio executives, so hopefully the cast will be able to benefit from that.
Even if the show had been picked up for a fourth season, Hurwitz expressed that he likely
would have taken a backseat role, unable to keep up the pace of running a show that was
built on so many small details.
The third season in particular seems to have really demotivated him and everyone working
on the show because of a lack of faith in how it was presented and promoted by the network.
Although the audience for Arrested Development was small, they were particularly passionate,
and when it came time to point fingers, many of them were directed at Fox.
This wasn't entirely spontaneous, though.
In the same way the instant classic label was encouraged by the DVD release of the first
season, the second season's DVD set had a message of its own buried at the end of the
season 2 blooper reel featurette.
I got an idea for what you can do, why don't you f***ing fire your complete marketing team
or get a new one in there, notice how to market a show that won five motherf***ing Emmys,
Golden Globes, SAG Awards, WGA Awards, DGA Awards, Producers Guilds Awards, Critics Top
Ten lists.
You know, if you can't market that kind of show and get better ratings, then maybe the
problem doesn't lie here.
Maybe it lies with marketing.
Good night.
Good night, thank you very much.
David Cross's frustration at the network was a pivotal moment, and really shaped the
perception of why the show failed.
It was moved to different time slots, it wasn't advertised the right way, or the network simply
didn't believe in it.
Looking at the evidence, not all of that is true.
The show had a very stable time slot, aside from that one episode in the first season
that was placed after an episode of American Idol, and the final four episodes being programmed
against the Olympics, which was decided well after the show had been cancelled.
It often didn't air new episodes on consecutive weeks, but the same was true for other shows
on the same night, which tended to perform better.
To say the network simply didn't believe in the show is a bit of a stretch when it
ran for two and a half seasons, with ratings that would get most other shows cancelled
in less than half that amount of time.
None of that is to say the network is blameless, though.
Arrested Development is a hard show to sell, but Fox was unable to capitalize on its acclaim
and loyal fanbase to reach a wider audience.
A brilliant show doesn't naturally find an audience if a network isn't entirely sure
how to find that audience.
In 2011, Mitch Hurwitz wrote an article for The Guardian titled, Arrested Development
creator Mitch Hurwitz's guide to getting a sitcom cancelled.
In it, he has some unflinching reflections on why the show failed to connect to audiences.
Here are a few examples.
Try to do too much for a 20-minute program.
If in your particular medium an audience is used to a simple plot line or maybe one or
two stories, see if you can get aid in there, and find a way that they somehow intertwine.
Add a sprinkle of incest.
They'll never admit it, but viewers love sex.
In fact, they love any sort of titillation, with the exception of incest.
So focus on that.
First impressions are everything, so if you can screw that up, you're made.
With Arrested Development, we tried showing the deep disdain that connects a family.
We wanted to hold up a mirror to American society, and just as predicted, America looked
away.
Make easy jokes about minority groups.
Whether they be Mexicans, Jews, or homosexuals, any group can be dismissed with a few stereotypical
cracks.
That's what we tried to do.
And given their lack of coming to the party, it seems we succeeded.
That last word in particular is worth considering, as there is a distinction to think about when
it comes to edgy humor.
While Arrested Development did have a few tasteless jokes about certain identity groups,
sometimes being outright racist, it typically had even more jokes about the oblivious bluths
and their racist attitudes.
In many cases, the bluths were the butt of the racially charged jokes.
For example, when Job brings out his racist puppet Franklin, the joke here is that Job
is a racist.
The episode even makes a decent bit of racial commentary.
So maybe not all the racial humor on the show was offensive.
But a question worth asking is, even if something isn't offensive, is it something someone
from one of these groups would actually want to watch?
Perhaps more than the racism, rather, it's that a show centered around a rich white family
gets less interesting the further the audience gets away from that experience.
There are plenty of examples of shows ahead of their time that had weak first seasons,
only to catch on some time later.
Cheers was one of the lowest rated shows on network TV when it aired.
Seinfeld went from a solid performer to one of the highest rated shows on television.
But those were shows that began in the 80s, and Arrested Development began in 2003.
The realities of network television were changing, with more channels to compete against and
more people DVR-ing shows.
It was tougher for a niche show to get a chance to grow, because audiences were fragmenting.
There was one unique advantage Arrested Development had been in the mid-2000, and that's the
benefit of DVD sales.
Although it's tough to find hard numbers, sales for Arrested Development DVDs were
quoted as being somewhere around 3 million units sold in the United States in an article
that was published in 2013.
The Numbers, a website that estimates the sales of media, claims that the third season
of Arrested Development sold roughly 400,000 units in its first three weeks, with an audience
of under 4 million, that's a very high conversion rate of people buying DVDs.
While these numbers would be dwarfed by powerhouses in the TV-DVD space, such as Family Guy,
it was still a sign that, at the very least, Arrested Development had a dedicated enough
fan base not to let the show vanish into the night.
In the years between Arrested Development's cancellation and return, the series was kept
alive in the minds of the public with rumors of a supposed movie being in the works.
The cast and creative team would, on occasion, stoke those rumors, but a lot of it was driven
by a fan base hungry for more Arrested Development.
Writing for The Verge, Keith Phipps offers some insight into this time.
Here's some inside baseball.
If you worked at a pop culture website between 2006 and 2013, running items about Arrested
Development's long-rumored return was like printing page views.
In addition to having a voracious fan base, Arrested Development was also fortunate to
have critics in position of influence to ensure that the series was held in high regard,
frequently placing it on lists of the all-time greatest TV shows.
This period is what started to cement the idea of Arrested Development being canonized
as one of the all-time TV greats.
It was unique, daring, and canceled before its time, everything to make it a darling,
and its reputation was helping it find a wider audience even off the air.
In TV history, shows that are considered all-time classics are often those that drew a massive
audience, but a space has always been carved out for smaller shows that were canceled before
their time, usually because they were very influential.
That space is reserved for shows that are not remembered by a mass audience, but rather
critics or a passionate fan base that keep it from being forgotten.
Historically, this is closer to how other forms of art are remembered.
Although popularity is a helpful boost, a mass audience tends to move on from a work
of art as time goes on, so it falls to critics, academics, and the most passionate
appreciators of a field of art to preserve its memory.
With television, things become more complicated.
It's rare for any long-running TV series to have its best episodes or moments in the
first season or two.
Oftentimes, shows will find that their third, fourth, or fifth seasons are among their
strongest, but it could only get there if it could build on a base of popular support.
This is why popularity is always important to consider when thinking of the all-time
TV greats.
A movie, a song, or a book is a finished product and is going to reach the highest
potential it can, but a show that keeps running has room to grow and improve.
This makes Arrested Development's accomplishment of becoming considered a
classic so quickly even more impressive.
Throughout the years following the cancellation of the show,
fansites started popping up online, including the Balboa Observer, the Inconvenient
Bluth, and the Banana Stand.
Fansites in particular were a fitting homage, as the show itself was constantly
putting together mock websites that were briefly mentioned on an episode.
The series itself almost seems built for internet fandom, as part of the fun involved
diving into each episode, finding foreshadowing for future events.
Like a vague reference to a dangerous seal attacking people several episodes
before it would bite off Buster's hand.
Or a guy who bears a striking resemblance to one of Saddam Hussein's sons appearing
at a Bluth Company event.
Is that Kusei Hussein at the omelet bar?
All these little details became catnip for a fanbase that was all too happy to dissect them.
In many ways, this has even influenced how other fandoms have deconstructed shows on the internet,
hyperfixating on every detail in a trailer or an episode, trying to connect various narrative
strands. While Arrested Development fans certainly didn't invent this way of looking at media,
they did help popularize it on the internet.
There is a downside to this though. It's helped give us an online culture that is less inclined
to discuss the themes or experiences of watching something to instead try and find any small
detail that appears more than once and calling it a day.
While no specific way of watching a TV show is correct or better than the other, I personally
appreciate a more balanced approach. It's fun to find easter eggs, but I think it's fun to do
something with those eggs to shape one's understanding of what a show is trying to say.
The series even inspired fans to create a documentary that included interviews with
cast members and other people involved with the production of the series.
It also interviewed a number of fans, all expressing their undying love for the series.
After what seemed like an endless series of teases, eventually it was revealed that Arrested
Development was coming back from the land of dead TV shows. It was what fans thought was a dream come
true. On October 2nd, 2011, the cast of Arrested Development, along with Ron Howard and Mitch
Hurwitz, all gathered for a reunion at the New Yorker Festival. It was here we got the first
real indicator that the show would be returning for a limited run.
About six weeks later, it was announced that Netflix would be the new home for this new run
of episodes, convinced in part by the show's strong streaming and DVD performance. Rather
than renewing the life of the series and continuing to produce new seasons, this was
intended to be a standalone season. Netflix CEO Reed Hastings described it saying,
Arrested Development is a wildly successful tactic, as opposed to fundamental to the strategy.
In August of 2012, a rough date was given for the series' return, spring of 2013.
One of the major challenges for the fourth season was that, thanks in no small part to
the critical success of the original three seasons, the cast had become very hot commodities, so
working out the time to film ten episodes of a fourth season was a real challenge.
Hurwitz decided that, instead of trying to recreate the ensemble dynamic of the earlier
seasons, he would instead use these episodes to focus on the individual characters, making it
easier to film around the schedules of the actors. In fact, this project wasn't even originally
intended to be a self-contained fourth season. Rather, the idea was for a series of shorts that
would lead to an eventual movie. Hype for the series eventually turned this into a full-blown
season, but the movie was always going to be part of the plan. In an interview, Hurwitz said,
The master plan is to do these episodes and then do the movie, where the family is all together,
and it's very much written and directed in that direction. It all leads to a bigger story.
It's kind of the preamble, although hopefully it'll be satisfying in its own right.
The fourth season was really more of an act one that would hopefully lead into a movie with acts
two and three. Although originally planned to be ten episodes, with Jason Bateman appearing in all
of them and the rest of the cast being featured in one episode each, the series kept getting larger
in the planning stages. Eventually it would grow to fifteen episodes. Episodes would still feature
a character from the Blue Family, only some characters got two episodes and others only
won. Hurwitz was pushed to his limits organizing the series. David Cross in an interview describes
what it was like visiting Hurwitz's office. You know the murder scene where they go to the
psycho killer's apartment and he's got all this crazy sh** mapped out? That's what it looked like.
Post-it notes and index cards all across the three walls into this big conference room,
yarn stretching from one thing to another and pinned in one place, and then a sharp angular
uptick to the Lucille character and down. And then there's a different colored yarn that intersects
and weaves in. It took Hurwitz 25 minutes to explain what I was looking at and I still didn't
get everything. When you see that, of course it has to be a TV show. There's no way else to do this.
Episodes weren't filmed separately. Rather, multiple scenes were shot each day regardless
of the episode they were in. Scripts were rewritten or sometimes only half finished,
so many lines were written on the set. In an interview, director Troy Miller said,
There's never been a half hour comedy with a level of complexity here. The idea of how
characters interrelate and the episodic arcs in A, B, C, D and E stories, it's this crazy wormhole
he's created. Portia de Rossi describes her experience filming saying, Look, I had a meltdown
absolutely. Then she laughs. I think all of us as actors had a moment where things came kind of
unglued for a second. At one point I remember I had all the episodes on the floor of my trailer
and they were all open to pages and I kind of went beautiful mind crazy trying to map everything out.
I had arrows and diagrams and it was so crazy and then I thought, Oh, I just have to let go
completely and show up to set and be present. As its May 26, 2013 premiere date approached,
it was clear that the season wasn't meant to be consumed the way the previous three had been.
It was meant to be watched repeatedly with jokes revealing themselves on rewatches and plot lines
intersecting in ways people weren't noticing the first time around. Ahead of the release,
Mitch Hurwitz offered some advice on watching the season. You can't take it all in at once.
It's like the selective attention test. It gives fans something to pour over if that's fun for them.
If they want to go right back and check out the Job episode and see how that was set up,
they can. Months ahead of the premiere, Netflix started a unique marketing campaign.
They began placing fake shows and movies on their platform inspired by previous episodes
of Arrested Development. There was also a contest for five fans with the most impressive creations
getting a chance to appear in a scene on the show. We also got a fun demo reel for Tobias
on his website, insertmeanywhere.biz. Netflix even held an orange carpet premiere
to celebrate the release, screening the first two episodes of the season.
Leading up to the release, there were a number of times and interviews that Mitch Hurwitz was
asked if he had any misgivings about the series potentially tarnishing the legacy of the original
three seasons he had created. At this point, Arrested Development had more or less been
branded an all-time classic. Hurwitz was always quick to reassure people that this season would
not disappoint, and one quote in particular makes it quite clear how the profile had not only grown
in the minds of the audience, but also in the mind of the show's creator, Hurwitz said.
If the first series aspired to be the godfather in terms of the family,
this thing aspires to be a godfather too. I'm sure a lot of people went to see the godfather
part two and said, what happens to the machine guns? What are we doing in Cuba? Meetings? Who
cares about meetings? But the godfather too was more substantial and rewatchable. It was more
complex. I aspire to do that kind of evolution with this. I don't mean to compare it to the
godfather 2, I just mean that, well, it's not exactly what the audience expects, but I think
it'll scratch the itch. Any comparison to the godfather, even one that was walked back,
can come across as a bit of a boast, but at the time, it seemed defensible.
Season 4 had some very heavy expectations on its shoulders.
Fourth season of Arrested Development is so densely layered that even writing about it is
a challenge. The first three seasons of the show had smaller story arcs that usually only ran for
about half a season, and the only long-term stories were either directly tied to the constant
perils of the Bluth Company or ongoing personal concerns like Tobias trying to find an acting job.
In other words, they were just reiterating the situation of this situation comedy.
Season 4 took things to a much grander scale, with the show's premise changing from a family
being held together to one that had been split apart. Each character had their own distinct
narrative, only occasionally intersecting with the other characters, and even though the episode
count was 15, the actual episodes ran considerably longer, ranging from 29 to 38 minutes. Its total
runtime is slightly longer than season 1's, even though that one ran for an additional 7 episodes.
Season 4 opens with a tease of where this story will take us, to a night called Cinco de Quatro,
originally created by the Bluths to undermine the Hispanic festival Cinco de Mayo, only to have
Cinco de Quatro claimed by that same community. And it's the sight of the murder of Lucille
Austero. To unravel how this all happened, the series goes back several years, picking up
immediately where season 3 left off, with the Bluths recovering at a Coast Guard headquarters
after having been rescued from sea when Lucille, fleeing the authorities, took the boat that most
of the family was on off course. Michael, having discovered at the end of season 3 that George
Sr. had stowed away on the boat he and George Michael were escaping on, also heads back to be
reunited with the family. The scene in the Coast Guard headquarters is one of the few that featured
all of the Bluth family in the same place at the same time, and it serves as a staging ground for
the stories to come. This scene is revisited multiple times throughout the season. Here's
how one moment is portrayed across several episodes. From this scene, each of the characters
goes off on their own adventures, rather than try to follow all the twists and turns of each of them,
and there are a lot. Instead, let's look at what it means for this family to fall apart.
One pattern among every member of the family is that their lives all start to break down
when they're separated, with no Michael or Bluth company holding them together. All the characters
almost immediately begin to self-destruct, even Michael's new development company quickly fails
and he's stuck living in George Michael's dorm until he's pathetically voted out. With his son
as the sole exception, Michael believes he'll be able to find a happier life for himself without
his family, and the other Bluths all believe the same thing. Tobias' story has him busking on the
street dressed up as The Thing from The Fantastic Four. This leads him to getting registered as a
sex offender when he pays a visit to Maybe. In Tobias' story, there's a genuinely sweet
moment between him and his new friend, Debris Bardot, played by Maria Bamford, a former actress
who is now in treatment for a chemical addiction. As the only outsider in the Bluth family,
Tobias is starving for positive support, the sort you might expect from a family,
but not if that family is the Bluths. It's a reminder of how non-typical this family is,
and Tobias being a part of it for over 20 years has borne the brunt of that reality.
Tobias spends much of his story assembling a new family, ostensibly to put on a production of a
Fantastic Four musical, but in reality he really loves being surrounded by a positive, caring group
of people who are willing to indulge his dream of becoming an actor. It still doesn't end well,
because Tobias is terrible at acting, but in spite of his loss of fortunes, he seems happier
struggling to get by with Debris than he ever did with Lindsay, who never appreciated his better
qualities. Lindsay's plotline is perhaps the most political the show has gotten up to this
point. She leaves Tobias for a young activist named Marky Bark, played by Chris Diamantopoulos.
Although things are nice at first, she eventually realizes that a life of a simple ostrich farmer
isn't for her. She eventually drops Marky to be with Herbert Love, played by Terry Crews. Perhaps
dating the show, Herbert is a reference to Herman Cain, who is running for the Republican nomination
in 2012, before dropping out after he was accused of sexually harassing multiple women.
Lindsay, charmed by his wealth, doesn't realize Herbert Love has hired her as an escort,
with payment going to maybe as her pimp. It would take too long to explain how that happens,
so let's keep moving. Jumping ahead to the conclusion, eventually Lindsay leaves Herbert,
only to end up replacing him on the campaign trail. After being robbed by someone she
thought was a Mexican man, Lindsay gives a speech that will sound very familiar.
This episode aired over two years before Donald Trump would announce his bid to become the
president, though the wall on the southern border had long been a talking point in right-wing
politics. Ironically, Lindsay was in some ways meant to model Hillary Clinton, as seen by the
distinct hairstyle she sports at the close of one episode. This storyline about building a wall on
the southern border ran through a number of characters' plotlines, but the connection
to Lindsay was particularly interesting as it spoke to the potential popularity of reactionary
politics. As parody, it seemed fitting, but in our current reality, it comes across as prophetic.
One thing season four simply can't escape is how utterly confusing it is. Although it somehow makes
sense when finished, the experience going through each episode can be frustrating,
particularly if it's your first time. Plot twists often get no explanation, jokes aren't paid off,
and it's easy to miss familiar faces that would take several episodes to reappear. It also didn't
help that each episode had such a lengthy runtime that even watching a single episode felt more
taxing than perhaps it should have. In an effort to explain the plot, episodes are packed with
flashbacks, flash-forwards, and heavy narration. Narration that gets disorienting when Ron Howard
himself shows up for a subplot involving Michael trying to sell his family's story to imagine
entertainment, only for Michael to imperil the deal when he mistakenly assumes his new girlfriend,
Rebel, played by Isla Fisher, is Ron Howard's mistress. The truth comes out in one of Tobias'
episodes. Did you not know that I'm Rebel's dad? I thought that you might also be her
a lover? I get it. I was arrested as a sex offender, but at least I knew it was my daughter
I was arrested for coming on too. The other guy Rebel is dating is George Maharis. Who was that?
No one. George Michael, looking for a new identity, is going by George Maharis now,
and Rebel was impressed by his software company that would hide your online footprint.
Fakeblock, which doesn't exist. At least not as a software company, it's actually just an app
that's a fake woodblock. I hope you can see how confusing this is all getting. The season's
fixation on individual characters does have some strength though. The plot lines dive deep into
who these characters are, and these include moments of realization for these characters,
occasionally summed up by other characters. You know, your whole life is an escape act,
and this girl seems like she really likes you. Why don't you just try to work it out and just stop
running? What you are is the invisible girl. You'll make it impossible for people to see
you in order to protect yourself. And that's when maybe who had spent so long lying to others,
and even herself, finally had to admit she had made a huge mis- I know I'm fine. Well,
not everyone has a moment of realization. There was also an intriguing plot line involving a
private investigator really emphasizing how the family was dissolving. Where the hell am I going
to find a PI? Jean Parmesan. At your service. AHH! Jean! He does this to me every time!
This guy gets me every time. The season does have a unique ending compared to every other
season of Arrested Development though. Michael, through some sly maneuvering, tries to get George
Michael out of Rebel's life without George Michael finding out they're dating the same woman.
And when the truth comes out, instead of closing with father and son somehow taking off from the
family once again as seen in previous seasons, this happens instead. And that's how the season
ends. With George Michael finally standing up to his father and, we hope, possibly breaking the
Bluth family cycle. By lying to his son and being even more like his father than he had been before,
Michael was setting up George Michael to be the same put-upon son that Michael was.
George Michael punching his father in the face is him rejecting that role for himself.
There are a few post-credits scenes with Buster being arrested for murdering Lucille too,
and Rod Howard excitedly talking about a movie based on him, but it would be some time before
those particular threads would be followed up on. The season ended as one of the most
densely structured seasons of a sitcom I have ever seen. Storylines layered on top of one another,
intersecting almost randomly, and a single joke could happen simultaneously across multiple
episodes. It was ambitious, uneven, and deeply polarizing. Even though Arrested Development
had returned, its fourth season wasn't the universal triumph the hype was demanding.
Netflix doesn't publish its viewing numbers, so we can't know for certain how well this season
performed. A third party that measured numbers at the time reported that 36% of devices connected
to Netflix on the Sunday premiere watched at least part of one episode of the series.
That's three times the number of people who watched House of Cards, which was one of the
strongest Netflix originals at the time. A few months after the show premiered, Netflix's chief
content officer, Ted Sarandos, apparently pleased with the show's performance, said that Arrested
Development would be returning to the streaming service at some point in the future. They just
weren't sure when or what form it would take. Mitch Hurwitz also discussed plans he had for
the series on Netflix, possibly airing material that had been filmed but not used in the fourth
season. He also described some kind of long-term plot for Tracy Bluth, Michael's deceased wife,
who very briefly appeared in season four on an old tape. She also looks like Isla Fisher, which
makes the whole relationship Rebel had with Michael and George Michael extra creepy. When
discussing the end of the season with George Michael punching his father, Hurwitz said in
an interview, What is the next step if you were to have that kind of situation with your father,
the closest person to you? What does happen next? As it turns out, I do have answers to that,
but I just need someone to let me make them. The original plan of doing a movie next was
still very much in Hurwitz's mind, though unlike the period after season three ended,
he said that there would be less teasing until plans were firmly in place and he had some idea
of a release date. Not all the reactions to the fourth season were quite so optimistic for the
future, though. In contrast to the overwhelmingly positive response of the original, the fourth
season proved to be more polarizing. Some felt it was too much of a departure from the original,
others appreciated its novel approach to storytelling. Regardless, the fact remains
that it was a divisive season. After season four aired, Mitch Hurwitz posted a handwritten note
to the show's Facebook page. It read in part, We are also grateful for another chance to bring
these characters to life and could not have done so without your consistent effort to
spread the word about it. Although obviously in the case of the enemies, the words you spread were
don't watch this show. You know, I probably shouldn't have even included them in the
salutation, but I'm writing this in ink plus making all sorts of mistakes. Did you notice the
S at the end of the word done? While it's obviously a bit tongue-in-cheek, it's clear
that Hurwitz was hearing a round of criticism about the fourth season, unlike the first three
seasons. In an interview several years later, Hurwitz reflected on some of the criticisms the
season got. It got positioned in the press saying, even Hurwitz thought it wasn't his best work.
Well, actually, I did think it was my best work, but I did acknowledge that it was and wasn't.
The other thing that was interesting about it is that some articles will say,
so-so reception, but it wasn't so-so. It was, this is great, or this is horrible. And even that
is what you hope for. I mean, you don't hope for this is horrible, but you do hope to do something
that's novel enough at a certain point in your career that people have strong reactions to it.
It's hard to map out the overall interest in a TV series over the span of years,
particularly when it isn't on the air and there are no ratings to consult. But as a show that
lived off the hype of the internet, interest in arrested development can be seen, at least in part,
on a Google Trends graph. Looking at how interest has changed since 2004, we can see it regularly
scoring above 10 for over a decade, shooting up slightly when news broke about its return at the
New Yorker festival reunion. Interest in the show exploded for its fourth season debut, but then
dropped entirely. What's most interesting, though, is that while previous years had the show scoring
a 10 on the interest scale, give or take one or two, after season four it was scoring either a six
or seven. That's a drop of roughly 40% of interest in the show. While it's probably the case that
stories about the rumored movie helped bolster interest earlier on, it's also true that, for
some fans, season four undercut a lot of their interest in this series. The late spike in the
interest chart does point to something else, though, and that's the show's eventual return for fifth
season on Netflix, split into two parts, each being eight episodes. In spite of the mixed response to
the fourth season, there was no hesitation on all the parties involved creatively to do more,
Hurwitz explained, saying, the studio wanted to do it, Netflix wanted to do it, the actors wanted
to do it, I wanted to do it, but we all have to want to do it at the same time. Ahead of the release
of the fifth season, we did get a second look at the fourth, though. On May 3rd, 2018, Netflix
released a re-edited version of the fourth season called, Fateful Consequences. This version of the
season would remix the series so that the story was told in a more chronological order. Instead
of focusing on a single character, episodes would include scenes from the stories of multiple
characters. So what was once an episode that only followed Job would be replaced by an episode that
followed Job, George Sr., and Buster. Episodes were also much shorter, being kept to a stricter 22
minute length. The season also ended up running for a few episodes longer because of that. A few
scenes were cut, including jokes that no longer made sense with the newly edited versions, and
a few were added in using additional audio that was recorded. It also introduced a lot more
narration to help fill in the blanks created when future events no longer had teases in earlier
episodes. There were aspects of this series that simply couldn't be changed, such as how few scenes
featured the Blue Family interacting with each other, and for jokes that fell flat the first time
around, they didn't really get better the second. The reaction to the remix was, well, mixed. Five
years after the original had aired, it found a loyal group of fans who enjoyed its structural
departure from the first three seasons, and there were fans of the early seasons who appreciated it
feeling more like those ones. If you're interested in watching the fourth season on Netflix,
it's the remixed version that's presented on its page for season four. To find the original
cut of the fourth season, you have to look under the trailers and more sections just to spot it.
While the original cut had five years for people to ponder its significance, the remix would not
have nearly as much time as only days after it was released, Netflix announced that the first
half of season five of Arrested Development would be aired a few weeks later, on May 29th,
2018. But there would be a few bumps on the way to that release. A few months before the release
of the fifth season, Jeffrey Tambor, who had been starring in the series Transparent, was fired
after he was alleged to have sexually harassed several women working on the production.
Afterwards, in an interview about the incident, Tambor admitted to having been difficult on the
set, though he insisted that he had not crossed the line into sexual harassment. When the news
broke, filming for the fifth season of Arrested Development had already been completed, and Tambor
was too integral to the series to be edited out, so it was never seriously considered to do that
season without him. In an interview, Mitch Hurwitz said, We were done shooting. There was no version
of cutting him out of the show, or there would be no show. Am I going to cut Jeffrey out of the show
based on allegations that he disputes, that Amazon hasn't shared, and that we have never experienced
any complaints about? No, of course I am not going to. I'm going to support Jeffrey.
Netflix head of content Ted Sarandos also expressed that Tambor had never been anything
but professional in their history working together. However, ahead of the premiere,
Jeffrey Tambor sat down for an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, where he mentioned that he had
a blow-up on the set of Arrested Development while filming its fifth season with Jessica Walter.
He added that he profusely apologized afterwards, but it raised a question that would come up in
several interviews with the press as the fifth season was being promoted, and most crucially,
in an interview with The New York Times. The interview included Jessica Walter,
Jeffrey Tambor, Jason Bateman, David Cross, Tony Ale, and Aliyah Shawkat. During the interview,
the subject came up of Jeffrey Tambor's behavior on the set of Arrested Development's fifth season.
Although Jessica Walter was the subject, Jason Bateman and David Cross talked over her,
coming to the defense of Tambor. It went on for a bit, until we finally got to hear
from Jessica Walter. Here's audio from that moment in the interview.
I have to let go of being angry at him. He never crossed the line on our show with any,
you know, sexual, whatever. Verbally, yes, he harassed me, but he did apologize. I have to
let it go, and I have to give you a chance to, you know, for us to be friends again. But it's hard,
because honestly, Jason says this happens all the time. In like almost 60 years of working,
I've never had anybody yell at me like that on a set. And it's hard to deal with it, but I'm
over it now. I just let it go right here for The New York Times. She didn't give it up for anybody
else. Hearing the emotion in Jessica Walter's voice and just how extreme the harassment, and
as she plainly says, the worst she's experienced in her career, it does bring the incident into
perspective. And it's unfortunate that in that moment of the interview, Jason Bateman, David Cross,
and Tony Hale all had moments where they seemed more concerned about repairing Jeffrey Tambor's
reputation than giving Walter the space she needed to tell her story about what happened.
Although Walter herself was ready to move on, there was significant backlash to the interview.
Jason Bateman, David Cross, and Tony Hale all issued apologies. Bateman's apology on Twitter
was particularly frank, saying,
I was so eager to let Jeffrey know that he was supported in an attempt to learn, grow,
and apologize that I completely underestimated the feelings of the victim, another person I deeply
love. And she was sitting right there. I'm incredibly embarrassed and deeply sorry to have
done that to Jessica. This is a big learning moment for me. There's never any excuse for
abuse in any form from any gender, and the victim's voice needs to be heard and respected.
In response to a greater understanding of the incident, Hurwitz said in an interview,
I realize now I clearly misread the situation, given how Jessica has revealed she felt about it.
There was more to it than I realized, and it's not my place to opine about what I believe was the
weight of it. I misinterpreted what I understood to have played out, and more importantly, the depth
of Jessica's pain about it. I felt so bad about that. I feel bad because I love these people.
I feel bad for very personal reasons. And because I had been viewing this through the lens of a
family member who assumed that any discord, regardless of who was upset with who, existed
within the context of a family that cared about each other. And that was a mistake.
Of course we were at work, and we're not really related. That's why we have different last names,
and I wish I'd known or made a greater effort to know the pain it caused. Speaking to Vice a few
weeks later, Aaliyah Shawkat, the only person in the interview who seemed to intervene on behalf
of Jessica, offered more reflections on the incident. I looked at Jessica and I could see
how it was sitting with her, and it wasn't good. She comes in and she tries to speak for a little
while, and again they keep going. In that room, when I look back on it, I wish I was able to
gather myself to not be afraid to speak out war and realize that I wouldn't be hurting anybody,
but actually helping. I know I said a little, but what I wish I had said was,
stop talking, stop, Jessica, go on. There's a lot of men who have not been accused of anything that
haven't taken the time to think about this. What's more important to me is that these men,
whether they've been accused of anything or not, need to start looking at this movement and
realizing it has a lot to do with them. I hope that the guys on the show and now all these men
of all different ages start to communicate with the women in their lives, the women they work with,
and just ask openly with no shame, what can I do to be better? One response to the interview,
from Linda Holmes writing for NPR, cut to the heart of why this particular interview managed
to resonate so strongly. It's not the worst story, not by a mile. It may not even be Tambor's
worst story, but seeing a woman so brilliant withstand repeated efforts by people who say
they love her to recast her experiences as normal when she knew they were not, it was a lot to take.
It should also be mentioned that Jessica Walter never stepped forward with her story of her own
will. It was revealed by Jeffrey Tambor and she was then forced to comment on it directly herself.
Whether it was a positive story or not, it really is their own personal right to tell their story,
including whether or not they want to share it at all. The incidents regarding Tambor were not the
only popular subjects that came up during the press tour though. Many connections had been made
between the Blue family and the Trump family at the time. A group of immoral developers, one of
whom was running for office with a slogan about building a wall in the southern border, the
connection was pretty clear and the show wasn't going to pretend it didn't exist. This was also
seen as a way for bringing Arrested Development back to its roots, making it the way it once was.
In another interview Hurwitz elaborated saying,
nobody has quite dealt with the mess they've made. It makes me think of what was going on with
America. We're all growing. We're finally having an African-American president. We're finally
acknowledging transgender people and allowing gay marriage. And then it's like, no, let's pretend
none of that happened. Let's just go back to what it was. It's just easier. So that's a big
undercurrent in this. He laughs. Which is also funny because it's what the fans want. Just go back.
Make it great again. Make Arrested Greedy again. One other change that would face the fifth season
of Arrested Development was the absence of Portia de Rossi. In 2017, at her request,
she was written off the series scandal and had intended to step away from acting entirely to
focus on her new business, an art curation and publication company called General Public. However,
she did make an exception for Arrested Development. Although her appearance would be very limited,
only appearing in a handful of episodes, making her storyline of running for Congress far less
prominent than originally planned. The lead in to the fifth season didn't generate nearly as
much buzz as the fourth season. The atmosphere around the show was almost a night and day
difference heading into the fifth season premiere. Because of its connection to the previous season,
there are quite a few recaps in the early episodes of season five. The first episode opens with four
minutes worth of them. Although season five was an attempt to return Arrested Development to its
earlier formula, it did carry over the idea of a season-long narrative that season four used. The
first three seasons have arcs that lasted multiple episodes, but they were often discrete and not part
of a larger narrative that many of the arcs in season four and five were. It makes for a more
cohesive experience, though it does cost the show some of the manic energy of those earlier seasons.
The attempt to shift back to an earlier format and not being able to get there reflects a major theme
through the season, feelings of regret of trying to recapture the past. After being punched in the
face by his son, the dynamic between them now carries the implicit threat of violence.
The uniquely American character of the Bluths is reflected in George Michael's trip to Mexico,
made comfortable with how Americanized the country is.
To make it even more explicit, the show also makes direct references to the U.S. government.
The Obama call-out, at a time when the Trump administration was being criticized for its border
policy, is especially clever. It reveals how partisanship blinds people to the cruelty that
is consistent in American policies towards its southern border, regardless of the party and power.
One side may be worse, but neither is good. In that way, the show is critiquing the right-wing
shift in American politics and the response to it during the Trump years. Going back to the way
things were isn't enough of a correction. People need to demand genuine political change, or as seen
in the case of Maybee, take matters into their own hands the way she did and start helping out
directly. Not that Maybee really sticks with it. One thing that the show is very quick to remind
people of is that the Bluths will never be our saviors, even though they certainly project the
idea that they've grown. But their left-wing politics are entirely performative.
This is being used to criticize a narrative that was being built at the time. The Bluths
represent conservatives who were, supposedly, turning into liberals as a response to the
hard-right turn of the Republican Party. The show is revealing these people, like the Bluths,
to be grifters cynically using the Trump backlash liberals express to accrue power for themselves,
acting the part of a sensitive, caring family while literally building a wall on the southern
border. These are people who feed on the politics of hate. And to nail this point home, we see
Lindsay lean into the cruelty once Maybee, her campaign manager, realizes it plays well to a
certain part of the electorate. And just like that, the liberal posturing fades away when there's
an opportunity to seize real power. It isn't that the Bluths find someone like Donald Trump
objectionable. As former pals with the Bush administration, they just don't like the idea
of another odious person taking the party from them. This cynical form of politics, where people
are motivated to vote through hatred, either towards a group of people or a political candidate,
is highlighted when Debris, posing as Lindsay during a parade, wears a sheet because of her
anxiety. Arrested development is taking a very hard stance against the politics of hate,
and how it exists across the electoral spectrum. Rather than simply admonish the Bluths entirely,
the season does offer an interesting insight into why that family is so broken.
It's foreshadowed early on when Tobias has some surprisingly wise words for Lucille.
In the second half of the season, we go back in time to get an idea of where some of this hurt
comes from. We see the Bluths in their summer home, back when Job, Michael, Lindsay, and Buster
were all children. We also meet Grandma Mimi, played by Jean Smart, who reveals where Lucille
got her mean streak. The younger Lucille is played by Cobie Smulders. These scenes set in the past
unfolded the episode surrounding Buster's trial, as he's the top suspect in the murder of Lucille,
too. There's a subtle hint that the jury is turning against him. Luckily, one surprise witness
starts to turn the trial on its head. Jean's testimony did not help Buster. The trial also
reveals that the flashbacks we had seen in several episodes were actually a TV series being produced
by Ron Howard based on the life of Buster and the death of Mimi. Although things look grim for
Buster having been accused of murdering his grandmother and Lucille, too, Michael, fulfilling
his dream of being a lawyer, manages to turn the whole thing around. In this moment, Michael is
fulfilling his destiny of holding the Bluth family together, being the hero he always imagined himself
to be by revealing himself to be a murderer. Michael's idea of himself as a hero, coupled
with doing something monstrous, helps him reveal what it means to be a hero in the Bluth family,
and that can be extended to reframe his domineering parenting of George Michael as
monstrous as well. He treats his son the way his father treated him, thinking he was a hero
doing it the whole time. So while George Michael consistently resists his father, Michael tries to
hold his son even closer. George Michael struggles to create distance and hold on to his family
identity, wanting to stay connected in this relationship that's shaping him into someone
more like his father than he'd like to admit.
Michael and George Michael finally decide to settle things.
Except this is a scheme, too, because if there's one thing the Bluths excel at, it's scheming.
George Michael and Michael have learned to work together, not against one another,
and while that still takes the shape of being Bluths, screwing over some other people,
they seem to have made it work well enough that at least they aren't hurting each other,
and maybe by trusting each other they can start to rebuild their lives into something better.
And in the finale we find out the truth about Lindsay's parents. She's actually Lucille's
half-sister. And as it looks like the family is coming together, Michael and George Michael do
what they do best, and that's take-off. And it wasn't Michael that killed Lucille, too. That
was Buster. And that's how season 5 came to an end. Plotlines colliding, traditions being
upheld, and a stark reminder that the Bluths are everything that's bad with America. We don't get
a tease for the next season, there is no epilogue, and there are no other signs we might see the
Bluths once again in the future. Just a stair car exiting stage left, leaving Sudden Valley,
perhaps forever. The fifth season of Arrested Development did not receive nearly as much
attention as the fourth, and was similarly not as passionately hated or appreciated. Although the
interview in the New York Times got a lot of attention, that didn't translate to people
talking about the show's return very much. The content of the show didn't do much to help,
while it may not have been bad, and in some ways it was pretty good. It was clear that the show
wasn't going to have the impact it once did, and while it was clever to weave that into the
narrative, it may not have come together as well as had been intended. In the third episode of the
fifth season, there's a reference to a very old internet meme, the Star Wars Kid.
This was referenced in the original run of Arrested Development, as well as the season
for revival. Not only is this joke now 16 years old being an internet meme, it feels even more
dated. Arrested Development is similarly starting to feel tired. While I appreciate a long-running
gag as much as anyone, even Jean Parmesan, not every joke is built to last, and comedy is
infamous for aging poorly. The Star Wars Kid joke, for example, is not just an early meme,
but one of the first major incidents of a teen being bullied by the internet. The poor kid's
life got turned upside down because a video that was posted by someone else made him a laughing
stock. While in some ways the series was fairly good about growing over time and discarding some
of its more controversial material, there were still moments like this that really made the show
feel trapped in the past, and all for preserving a cruel joke that was long past its expiration
date. More than a stale joke, the series itself felt like it was treading water. The Bluths are
terrible people, and it's an intergenerational phenomena that can be extrapolated to the American
experience. Lovely, but does it need to return every five years to deliver that message again?
The fifth season is, of course, not irredeemable. The political commentary was sharp, the Michael
and George Michael story did take some interesting steps forward, and there were some genuine laughs
to be had. But as a show, it struggled to capture anyone's attention, as can be seen in much of the
audience's reaction. In an article for The Verge, Keith Phipps summed it up nicely, saying,
Arrested Development was once a special show, now it's a show struggling to remind viewers why
it's special. This raises the important question, is this the end for Arrested Development? In an
interview, Mitch Hurwitz expressed a desire to do more. Here's an excerpt from a 2018 article.
It flows so easily out of this cast. It's hard not to want to do more. It may be another epic
way. We've always been underdogs, he says. Nobody ever got cocky. Really, we're all still
trust-trying so hard. So actually, the every few years thing works great for me, because it's hard
to get a laugh through to that screen. The cast was less committed, though Will Arnett offered an
interesting perspective, saying, Mitch has written out versions where each one of us is the last
person, depending on who lasted the longest. And I predict it will be me. Yeah, I'm gonna
outlive everyone. David Cross, speaking on a podcast, seemed less convinced that the show
would ever return. In particular, he cited the challenging work schedule and the hardship of it
on the cast. Now, you can definitively say it's over. It's over. How do you know that?
I know. Yeah, we didn't have full scripts. It was a terrible way for actors to try to do what they
do. And there were a lot of frustrations early on. The shoot kept extending. You're asking a
lot of people, and especially older people, who just don't have the physical stamina that some
younger cast and crew do. And it led to some tensions, and it was a very bad way to
work. David Cross also said he believed the show was over back in 2010, though clearly,
Fate had other plans for the show. Sadly, this time it seems like Fate took another turn,
and it's unlikely that Arrested Development will return, or at least, it can never be the same show
again. Jason Bateman's career trajectory changed completely after Arrested Development ended its
third season. He went from appearing in sitcom pilots destined to fail to appearing in big-budget
movies such as Horrible Bosses, Hancock, and Zootopia. Most notably, he starred in and directed
several episodes of the Netflix series Ozark. Will Arnett's career experienced a big boost
after appearing on the show, going on to appear in movies and TV shows, though perhaps it's voice
work that's given him the most acclaim, having starred in Bojack Horseman and portrayed Lego
Batman in multiple Lego movies. Portia de Rossi would go on to appear on the shows Better Off
Ted, Niptuck, and Scandal, though as mentioned earlier, she would leave acting in 2018 and is
now currently focusing on her new business venture, General Public. Michael Cera starred in the movies
Superbad, Scott Pilgrim vs. the World, Juno, and a host of other projects that needed an awkward
teen boy. In many ways, his style of teenage boy became a trend in the 2000s. Most recently,
he voiced Hank in the movie Paws of Fury, The Legend of Hank. Aaliyah Shawkat has been very
prolific since Arrested Development gave her career its first big break. She's appeared
in dozens of TV shows and movies, most recently starring in the series Search Party, which ended
its fifth season in early 2022. Tony Hale would appear in a number of projects after Arrested
Development changed his career, including a lengthy run on the series Veep. Most recently,
he's appeared in Hocus Pocus 2 and done voice work for the Harley Quinn TV series. Jeffrey
Tambor's career has come to a halt after he was fired from Transparent for allegedly sexually
harassing several of the women who worked on the production. Jessica Walter would take on another
Lucille Bluth-esque role as Mallory Archer on the show Archer. In interviews promoting the
fifth season of Arrested Development, when asked if she would return to the show, she believed that
within five years she would be too old to keep acting. Sadly, she would only be around for
another three. She plastered away in her sleep on March 24, 2021. Classic is a term that's given
to a work of art that either has or is expected to pass the test of time. Remembered well after
its debut and often outliving the artist or artists who created it. Arrested Development
had the immense advantage of achieving a cult's status amongst a passionate viewership and critics
with its first three seasons. In 2012, its position as a classic might have been guaranteed,
depending on who you asked, but its divisive return in 2013 and its less-noticed return in 2018
have complicated that confidence in its classic status. Art isn't created in a vacuum, and it's
through influencing new art that older works are often remembered, and by being remembered,
become more likely to be thought of as a classic. So in that sense, those are the viewers who may
matter the most. Arrested Development will be remembered as a great work of art by being
remembered by artists who will go on to create great works of art of their own,
creating a vast tapestry of classic television. Arrested Development may or may not be over,
or at the very least, if it comes back, it certainly can't be the same without Jessica
Walter. But its status as a classic doesn't seem to be under a serious threat. It may speak to the
strength of the original three seasons, but perhaps more importantly, it speaks to the
strength of the memory of those seasons in the minds that made the show a classic.
Can you tell that this video took nearly seven hours to record? Yeah, it's one of my longest ever,
and it was a challenge writing something this big for a show that didn't even last 100 episodes.
All of this coming together in one big package. I really hope it is good and people enjoyed it.
If you are someone who enjoyed it and you're thinking, I'd like to see more of those,
well, I've got a bunch of other TV show retrospectives you can check out,
and you can also make sure I keep making more in the future by supporting this channel financially.
You can become a patron or a member, and you'll get your name floating up the screen, like all
these lovely people here. In addition to that, you'll get early access to new videos as I make
them, plus other fun extras that I throw in every now and again. If you would like to support the
channel in a non-monetary fashion though, you can do that by liking, commenting, and subscribing if
you haven't already, and do hit the bell for notifications. I want to thank everyone so much
for watching all the way until the end, and this was a real challenge to narrate, and I
want to ask Ron Howard, how do you think I did?
Real shoddy narrating, just pure crap.
F*** you, Ron.
