My sponsor for this video is not Gillette and their razors suck.
In January of 2019, Gillette released an ad titled,
We Believe The Best Men Can Be Gillette short film about the danger of toxic masculinity.
And to sell razors, of course.
In some corners of the internet, this was taken as a direct assault on men and masculinity,
and the outrage helped fuel this ad to reach millions of viewers.
The story of using socially progressive messaging in advertising has already been told in a great
video by Hbomberguy. You can go watch that if you want a bit more detail on how these companies
use these methods to sell their products. This video isn't about that, though. It's about what
happened with the Gillette outrage a few months later. In July of 2019, Procter & Gamble, Gillette's
parent company, announced in its fourth quarter earnings report that it was writing down the
value of its Gillette assets by $8 billion. The reaction from the outrage mob was predictable,
lots of crowing and patting themselves on the back, and people were hurriedly adding
yet another entry to the spurious list of things that went woke and got broke.
Which is still ridiculous, because this write-down has nothing to do with the ad in question.
One of the common misconceptions about this $8 billion loss is that it reflects a dramatic
drop in sales of Gillette products. A quick look at the sales figures tells us this is impossible.
Gillette is part of Procter & Gamble's grooming division, a division that, in all of its 2019
fiscal year, had sales of $6.2 billion, roughly a 5% drop from last year's $6.6 billion. So,
obviously, that's not a drop of $8 billion. And even though the ad came out in January,
Procter & Gamble's fiscal year actually ends in June, so it would only have about five months of
sales to lose $8 billion. This write-down wasn't about millions of people leaving the Gillette brand
en masse. Unlike certain critics, let's actually read the whole article to get a better understanding
of what happened here. It quite clearly calls this $8 billion write-down. This is when a company
looks at the assets it has and lowers their value based on demand in the market. Here's a small
example to explain that. Let's say we have a piece of clothing such as jorts, and you're a company
that has a warehouse full of jorts in the midst of a jorts craze sweeping the world. You would
record that stash of jorts as an asset in your books, and you'd value it based on the high price
people are currently paying for jorts. As time goes by, humanity comes to its senses and realizes
that jorts are, in fact, ugly clothing no sane person would wear. As demand goes down, the average
price for jorts goes down with it, and that warehouse full of jorts you have is now worth
substantially less. While the physical asset of jorts remains completely unchanged throughout
this time period, their value in the marketplace has gone down, and a responsible company would
need to update this value in its books by writing it down. And we're seeing something similar happen
here with razors. Although razor technology hasn't changed dramatically, it's men's fashion that has
been changing over the last decade, and beards are very fashionable these days. Less guys shaving
means less guys are buying razors. There's also the fact that the population, at least in the
United States, and older men generally don't shave themselves as frequently as younger men.
Add into the fact that Gillette, which once had very little in the way of competition, is now
facing some serious resistance from companies like Harry's and Dollar Shave Club. Suddenly,
you've got a brand that's having a much tougher time sell in its products, and Gillette's sales
over the past decade reflect that, showing a steady decline in year-over-year sales. Proctor
and Gamble also reported that its global sales are less profitable due to currency fluctuations
around the world. That's a whole other topic in finance that I'm even less qualified to speak about.
The point is that Gillette's trouble as a brand had been well known for some time. Here's an article
from back in 2017 demonstrating that Gillette as a brand was having a tough time. Let's keep one
thing straight though. Gillette still has a massive mortgage share. There are a lot of different
estimates of this, but I've seen numbers from everywhere between 50 to 60%, but that's a far
cry from the 70% at once claim. It means that this incredibly profitable business is now only
fairly profitable. It stands to reason that a brand that doesn't make as much money as it used
to isn't going to be worth as much in the marketplace. Proctor and Gamble purchased Gillette
in 2005 for the enormous sum of $57 billion, and while Gillette showed strong growth in the years
that followed, in the early 2010s it demonstrated a sizable decline, meaning if Proctor and Gamble
were to try and sell Gillette on the market today, it's quite likely it wouldn't fetch quite as high
a price. A write-down is an accounting technique used to reflect this new reality. It also lets
the parent company, in this case Proctor and Gamble, lower its tax burden. If it's reporting
to its government that its assets are worth $8 billion less than previously reported, that's
$8 billion they won't have to pay taxes on at the end of the year. The annual earnings report this
was all announced and also announced very strong sales and overall growth for the Proctor and Gamble
company. So when this news went public, the market, being aware of how all this works,
wasn't dissuaded by the write-down and instead focused on the strong sales growth, decided to
buy up shares of Proctor and Gamble and sent the stock to a record high. This, obviously, flies in
the face of the idea that a commercial about toxic masculinity ruined Gillette and cost them
$8 billion. Not that right-wing media outlets let it stop them from running countless stories about
just that. My absolute favorite comes from the Washington Examiner, which originally ran an
article with a headline reading, Gillette CEO, $8 billion loss is price worth pain over hashtag
me too campaign, which would later be updated with this correction. Correction. The Washington
Examiner has updated the story to remove the suggestion that Gillette lost $8 billion due to
its me too inspired advertising campaign. We regret that this article did not adhere to the
Washington Examiner's normal standards and procedures and the headline had to be changed to
Gillette CEO losing customers over hashtag me too campaign is price worth pain. How many customers
were lost? Did it have a meaningful impact? This article can't really tell us and that's kind of
the point. It's just a bunch of noise. But did this ad actually have an impact? I want to look
at the sales numbers one more time. In this annual data, we can see sales for Gillette have been going
down for a long time. The last eight years in particular have not been kinds of the brand.
And when did this commercial debut? Right about here. When trying to measure the value of the
Gillette brand and its associated assets, one of the key metrics is going to be how much it earns
via sales. And if poor sales are responsible for lowering its value, this has been a problem long
before the ad about toxic masculinity. You could argue that unlike Nike, this ad didn't do much
to help Gillette. And that seems like a fair assessment. It's not like this ad and the media
storm that followed really turned the brand's fortunes around. There's all sorts of reasons
why this could be true. People are probably more likely to make a political statement through
their fashion choices rather than through whatever grooming products they have in their washroom.
But the argument that being woke destroyed Gillette's business, especially when it still
makes over six billion dollars a year, isn't anywhere close to true. And with that, we can
put this story to bed. Another bad argument in the long line of trash fire arguments about
getting woke and going broke. So why the hell am I talking about a story that's nearly a year old?
One of my most downvoted videos is why get woke, go broke is a lie. While I'd like to think it's
because the title should obviously have been get woke, go broke is a joke, the truth is,
according to the comments, that I was avoiding the much stronger examples of how inserting woke
politics into anything turns off a mainstream audience. Chief among those examples is the Gillette
eight billion dollar loss, which dribbles into the comments section of that video on a regular
basis. I always found it strange that I kept seeing these comments and obviously false story
about a single ad costing a company eight billion dollars should make someone skeptical or at least
raise some alarms. That's obviously a sensational story. Even if you're someone inclined to believe
the whole get woke, go broke thing, this should still make you pause. Doesn't it seem a little
far fetched? I think what we need to consider is that when people spread this talking point,
they aren't trying to demonstrate their knowledge of a subject, but rather their membership in a
group. In recent years, psychologists have been anxiously studying the expansion of fake news
ever since social media started becoming such a pervasive spreader of it. Recent research shows
us quite depressingly that false news not only spreads widely on the internet, it also spreads
much quicker than real news. This is especially true for anything considered political. According
to a review of the research published by the American Psychological Association, facts tend
to be spread by partisans on the left and the right at the same rate, regardless of whether or
not that information is true. Part of the reason this information is spread on social media
is not the desire to inform our contemporaries, but to signal that we are, in fact, part of the
same political group. Daniel Kahane, a professor of law and psychology at Yale Law School, offers
some insight using the politically contentious topic of climate change. If you take an ordinary
member of the public, his or her carbon footprint is too small to make an effect on climate change.
If they make a mistake on the science in that part of their life, nothing bad happens to them,
but they can be adversely affected if they're holding a deviant view on an identity-defining
issue inside their social group. In other words, when someone shows up to my comments section to
mention a talking point that never had any way behind it, they aren't honestly hoping to change
my mind. They're just letting me and any other commenters know that they belong to a certain
political group, one that opposes the group I represent. And when watching some of the videos
on YouTube pushing narratives like Get Woke Go Broke that have a tenuous connection to any sort
of evidence, you can see how they're constructed not to provide greater context or understanding,
but instead taking a news story and placing it into a more exciting narrative,
one that binds its audience together. They're going there to have their opinions reinforced,
and to see other people in the comments section or on Twitter who feel the exact same way that
they do. They may go on to other social media platforms where they continue to signal to one
another that they're in the same social circle. No one really understands anything that they're
talking about, but they've at least identified their compatriots, their friends, their community.
And that's what this is all about. It's about building communities and making friends. And on
its face, that's a lovely thing. Making friends and building a community is something everyone
wants and I generally recommend. But where it goes wrong is when it's centered around blindly
following someone who's deeply ignorant of politics, or worse yet, misrepresenting the
news of the day to advance a toxic political agenda. Some of the most successful YouTube
and Twitch channels are built on this idea of community, and some creators use that language
quite openly. There's nothing inherently wrong with it, but what I would hope that you as a viewer
do is take some time to consider what positions are required to be a member of that community
and what cost is associated with ignoring them. And then ask yourself, have I really thought about
this? Have I spent the time really digging into and trying to understand these issues that are
apparently central to my social circle that I'm now a part of? And that's true of commentary
channels on the right and left. A recent piece of research to come out of the University of
Regina in Saskatchewan, Canada argued that it isn't political affiliation alone that's to blame
for the spread of fake news on the internet. Researchers argue that it's actually a case of
lazy thinking, and that when people think more critically about the news they're seeing,
they're less likely to engage with the spread of fake news, regardless of the political affiliation.
David Rand, PhD, Professor of Management Science and Brain and Cognitive Sciences at MIT, explains.
Our findings suggest that getting people to reason more is a good thing. When you're on social media,
stop and think. So the next time you're on social media and you see a sensational news story,
especially when you're inclined to agree with, take some time to think about it before rushing
to share it with your friends. It's probably too much to expect this one video to change someone's
deeply held political beliefs, but I hope anyone watching will at least be less willing to spread
bogus news stories in an effort to take the other side down a peg. And when it comes to your own
personal beliefs and the arguments that sustain them, never be afraid of an honest challenge or
conversation or debate. At the end of the day, you'll either make your existing beliefs stronger
or you'll be able to adopt something that's better and more accurately reflects the truth.
And if you're in one of those communities where you have to believe something that's either
obviously not true or can only be believed if you refuse to actually engage with evidence or facts,
maybe consider that this group isn't the one for you.
For the longest time, I've been meaning to make a video about how to disagree
amongst our own side, that is to say, within the left. I'm a very big believer that debate
and conversation, and when I say debate, I don't necessarily mean live debates, which
often feel more like theater than anything else. Not that there's anything wrong with theater,
of course. Theater is a lovely and sometimes necessary thing. But I think it's very important
that we create a space where we feel free to debate and discuss our ideas in a way to make
them better, stronger and more resistant to challenge from parties who we may find ourselves
at odds with politically. Sometimes that means ideas we have aren't great. They need to grow,
evolve, or sometimes they need to be dropped entirely depending on the arguments involved.
Sometimes we might need to bring them back if there's some new argument is brought for them.
That's one of the lovely things about discussion and discourse. And when I say debate, I'm talking
about real issues, not stuff like let's talk about, like climate change, as if that's not
an obvious scientific reality. This video initially wasn't supposed to be about any of that,
but the Gillette thing, it just really bugged me and I wanted to talk about it. Not because I
care about Proctor and Gamble and Gillette. I actually don't like them at all. I don't use
the razors usually. And I think they're pretty bad and overpriced. If you take anything away
from the Gillette section of this video, it's just don't buy their products or do. I don't care.
It's your life, your face, just whatever you want. And if you want to support this channel,
you can sign up to become patron or you can sign up for a fancy YouTube membership.
You'll get your name and the credits, access to my awesome theme songs, and you'll also,
most excitingly, get early access to videos before they go up. It's really cool and fun,
and you should consider doing it. If you'd like to support this channel in a non-financial way,
consider liking, commenting, subscribing, hitting the bell, and thank you so much for watching.
