Debuting in the year 2000, Malcolm in the Middle had a profound impact on the world
of television sitcoms.
The show centered its stories around an over-the-top family while popularizing a single-camera style
of filming on network television.
Throughout its run, it was nominated for multiple awards, was a critical darling, and achieved
rating success before finally becoming to an end in its seventh season.
The series was created by Linwood Boomer.
Originally an actor, he broke into the TV world as the character Adam Kendall on the
series Little House on the Prairie.
He gradually moved towards writing and producing, soon finding himself working on a number of
TV sitcoms.
In the writers' room, he would entertain his colleagues with stories of his family
growing up, and eventually he'd put together a pilot based on those early years of his
life.
Boomer was considered gifted and put into special classes, much like the main character
on his show, Malcolm.
My mom would never tell me what my IQ was, so when I wrote Malcolm, I said his IQ was
165.
My mom then told me that mine was never that high.
The idea of a child prodigy in less-than-ideal circumstances was at the center of Boomer's
pitch.
It was easy to write because I knew the material.
I'd been thinking about it for a very long time, and a lot of those pieces in the pilot
were pieces of my life.
I'd spent a lot of time telling them as anecdotes.
They were polished.
Although it was shown to several different networks, the show ultimately landed on Fox,
a network with a history for depicting non-traditional family dynamics, at least non-traditional when
it came to what you would see on network television.
The role of Malcolm was given to Frankie Muniz.
Originally written as a 9-year-old, Malcolm's age was instead made vague to accommodate
the 13-year-old Muniz.
Although Boomer considered himself at that age to be more antagonistic, Malcolm was written
to be more of a charming eccentric, a genius living in a family of underachievers, trying
to understand a world that demeans people like him.
Jane Kaczmarek was cast as Malcolm's mother, Lois.
It was a role that earned Kaczmarek seven Emmy nominations for a lead actress in a comedy
series, one for every year the show is on the air.
Though sadly she would never win the award, she does hold the record for most nominations
within that category without actually winning it.
Along with Malcolm, Lois was one of the two characters left largely unchanged from the
original script for the pilot, a fierce matriarch of her family that holds them together through
sheer force of will.
Brian Cranston was cast as a father of the family, Hal, and unlike the other characters,
was radically transformed by the actor.
Originally a ghostly presence in the series, Cranston played Hal as a character motivated
by fear.
This opened him up to some of the more absurd plot lines and physical gags, with stunts
often performed by Cranston himself.
The oldest child of the family, Francis, was played by Christopher Masterson.
Having been sent away to military school, Francis typically appears in his own self-contained
plot lines, disconnected from the stories back in his family's household, though he
does appear in a handful of episodes that bring everyone together for some chaos.
Justin Burfield played the second oldest brother, Reese, although technically younger than
Frankie Munes, his character was a year older on the show.
Reese is the dimmest member of the family.
He would only be caught using his head to solve the problem if it meant smashing it
against something.
The final member of the family is Dewey, played by Eric Per Sullivan, the youngest member
of the family, at least in the beginning.
He began the series as a cute bit of comic relief, and gradually grew into a budding
musical virtuoso by the series' end.
In the pilot episode of the series, the family was given the name Wilkerson, though this
was dropped afterwards to avoid any specific ethnic label for them.
In the interest of sticking to how they are most often presented in the series, I am going
to avoid using any last name for the family.
The cast was joined by a host of other characters, such as Craig Feldspar, played by David Anthony
Higgins, Malcolm's friend Stevie Carnarbon, played by Craig Lamar Traylor, and Lois'
mother Ida, played by Cloris Lechman.
Another vital aspect of the series was its style, which was unique on network television
at the time, breaking the tradition of a multi-camera setup, where a scene was filmed from multiple
angles at once.
Malcolm in the middle opted to use a single camera for filming, something more akin to
dramas on network television or comedies on cable television.
There was no studio audience, or laugh track for that matter, and to compensate, the series
used a number of techniques, camera movements, montages, and lots of changes in filming locations.
Although commonplace among comedies today, back in 2000, this was incredibly rare for
network television sitcoms.
Malcolm in the middle premiered on January 9, 2000, on Sunday night, between The Simpsons
and The X-Files.
It was a plum spot, and an advertising blitz ensured that this show would have every advantage
possible to make a strong first impression, and a strong first impression is exactly
what it made.
The first episode of the series, creatively titled Pilot, begins with Malcolm offering
some narration to the camera.
A rarity for TV sitcoms, Malcolm offers us a running narration throughout the series,
giving us some insight into how his mind works in any given scene.
But this does more than provide context, it lets us see into the mind of a genius to
realize that the things he cares about in life aren't all that different from what
we care about.
After the opening credits, with a song performed by They Might Be Giants, we meet the rest
of Malcolm's family.
Malcolm and his brothers have two states of being in their home.
They're either fighting with each other, or they're asleep.
While the boys walk to school, Francis is introduced through a short montage.
It's here we see two strengths of the show's style.
On your standard sitcom, there are usually only a handful of locations, due to the cost
and effort of building new sets for a multi-camera setup.
A single camera lets them film on various locations more easily, so we get to see things
that would otherwise be summarized by dialogue.
In this example, it's the many exploits of Francis, shown through a series of quick
cuts, watching the chaos of his teenage years unfold, rather than having it summarized by
a character describing his antics.
This moment would have far less impact if it was someone talking about how Francis lit
a car on fire and hooked up with a girl, instead we actually get to see it.
The episode's plot introduces the premise of Malcolm's genius finally being noticed
in school, and him being brought into the gifted class.
We meet Malcolm's eventual friend Stevie, and Malcolm reluctantly connects with him.
The idea of being normal comes up a lot in this series, and Malcolm is desperate to hold
on to that.
By the end of the episode, we realize that this is Malcolm's first step into realizing
he doesn't quite fit in with the rest of the world, that he isn't quite normal.
Although most of us aren't geniuses, what's relatable here is the feeling of not quite
fitting in at school, of being unsure of where exactly your place is in the world.
In Malcolm's case, he's a genius.
But for other kids, it might mean braces, an unexpected growth spurt, or having to move
somewhere new.
This episode's resolution sees Malcolm embracing Stevie as a friend, standing up to a bully,
and deciding to make the most of his new situation.
Although rough around the edges, Malcolm is a good kid, and now he's stuck trying to
figure out his new status as a krellboying.
In the series krellboying is a term used to describe kids in the gifted program.
It gradually fades away over time, as Malcolm's krellboying friends become a less prominent
part of the series.
The name is a reference to the Rick Moranis character in the 1986 movie Little Shop of
Horrors.
It's hard to imagine kids in the year 2000 having strong memories of a fourteen-year-old
horror musical.
This is one of those little details that remind us this is a show written by adults about
kids who don't necessarily have their finger on the pulse of pop culture in the 2000s.
This episode includes the first and only appearance of the family's last name, Wilkerson, seen
here on Francis' nametag.
The pilot was a huge success, winning Primetime Emmy Awards for Writing for a Comedy Series,
awarded to Linwood Boomer, and Directing, awarded to Todd Holland.
In the ratings, it pulled in 22.4 million viewers, and the following week's episode,
Red Dress, set a series high for 23.3 million viewers, although the first season would eventually
settle to an average of roughly 15 million viewers per episode.
The episode Red Dress also includes one of the most obvious shots of a crew member in
an episode I've ever seen.
Another thing that made Malcolm in the Middle different was how it structured its episodes.
While other sitcoms would have a main plotline and a shorter backup plotline in each episode,
Malcolm in the Middle could sometimes include up to four different plotlines running through
a single episode.
It ensured that, even though Malcolm was the main character, he would never have to shoulder
the bulk of each episode, and really emphasize that the show was an ensemble cast.
Malcolm's teacher, Caroline Miller, played by Catherine Lloyd Burns, is credited as a
principal member of the cast, though that would only last for the season.
She serves as a guide for Malcolm into his new surroundings in the gifted class.
Malcolm's world in the gifted class, self-contained in the first few episodes, comes crashing
up against the reality of his family in the episode Crawl Boyin' Picnic.
Up to this point, Malcolm's intelligence has largely just been an abstract IQ score,
but the climax of this episode shows us what his brain is truly capable of.
And, much to Malcolm's relief, he finds out his family, while shocked, isn't about
to treat him like a completely different person.
One interesting distinction here is that Malcolm isn't entirely alone.
Throughout this episode, the Crawl Boyins are constantly fawning over him.
He's the smartest kid in class, and they're all deeply impressed, and it's heavily implied
in the series that these nerds being bullied in the present are destined for great things
in the future.
Malcolm is literally being welcomed into a new class of people, and he's afraid of
losing his place in the world he would have to leave behind, represented by his family.
Malcolm's family is not rich.
Far from it, in fact.
One of the running themes of the series is just how little money they have for anything.
Malcolm shares a room with his two brothers, both parents work dead-end jobs, and their
house is in a constant state of disrepair.
The outside world is a cruel place for the family, and while they may torment one another,
they also protect each other as well.
Malcolm's fear of losing that connection and being swept up into that new world is
another reason his family is so important to him.
He's seen enough of the world to know that even if he has an edge, he's just a few
mistakes back into that same rut his family ended up in.
While the Crawl Boyins are convinced the world will get better for them in the future, Malcolm
is well aware that it isn't good for them in the present.
The laws of the playground don't favor the smart, they favor the strong.
The Crawl Boyin kids are constantly bullied.
While Malcolm's family can make him feel like he's been cursed, it's all he really
has to hold onto.
There's no winning for Malcolm.
He can only lose the least amount possible, and in this case, it's about not losing
his family.
The dynamic between Hal and Lois is interesting insofar that you have this very strong mother
figure taking charge of the family, and a father figure who is a bit more fearful and
timid.
Not afraid of his wife, of course, but more the world around him.
This unique dynamic invites a conversation about gender roles on the show.
Men in this series are generally presented as uncivilized brutes, only tamed by the presence
of women.
For a season, we can see two examples, with Reese going from schoolyard bully to queried
mess when dealing with a crush.
Eventually, Hal sits him down, along with the other boys, for a talk.
The idea of this destructive behavior being genetic is a bit worrying, and we actually
see it challenged in the episode where Reese, instead of acting like a maniac, takes an
interest in his crush's cheerleading and then trying to talk to her.
The pyramid, a symbol of ancient civilization, is a fitting metaphor for gender roles.
As Reese and Wendy decide to connect in a meaningful way, instead of the more primal
fashion described by Hal, it risks the very pillars that hold this social order together.
Even if society is brought down around them, the bond between two people survives.
And isn't that more meaningful than some dumb pyramid?
We can see the impact of Lois and Hal in the episode, The Bots and the Bees, where Lois's
departure causes Hal to regress into the person he was before he met her.
Hal is a dangerous rebel, untamed and wild, so long as Lois isn't around.
Hal and Reese are interesting to contrast in these two episodes.
The show presents rebellious behavior as a method of attracting women and as a product
of being outside their influence.
It's an outward sign that a man needs a woman to civilize him.
In one generation, we see this script followed unthinkingly, and in another, it's contradicted.
Reese ends up with a potential to love interest, and Hal ends up covered in bees.
It's the difference between critically examining yourself and internalizing what you think
society is telling you a man should be, reducing it to some kind of biological imperative.
Season 1 ended with the episode, Water Park, part 1.
The plot lines here are mostly concluded at the end of the episode, with the exception
of Dewey, who had been left all at home with a babysitter who dies by the end of the episode,
leaving Dewey completely unattended.
The season 2 opener, Traffic Jam, part 2, has the family stuck in traffic while trying
to return home from the water park.
While technically a continuation of the previous episode, the plot lines are all new, with
every member of the family and their own storyline, the Dewey plot line carried over from last
season is resolved when he's finally brought home by some bikers.
But the one plot line from this episode I want to highlight is how Lois tries to resolve
the Traffic Jam through sheer force of will.
Lois, who is such a dominant force throughout the first season, is starting to show the
limits of her power.
Can this notice it again this season in the episode, Traffic Ticket?
The
contrast between Lois being the voice of authority and her using that voice to stand up to a
greater authority reveals that at the heart of the character, Lois believes in a higher
form of morality.
There's a theory of moral development created by American psychologist Lawrence Kohlberg
that describes how we grow as moral beings, moving from understanding morals as rules
we use to achieve certain outcomes to applying a system of universal ethics.
Lois operates at the post-conventional level, certain of her morals and bucking at the system
when it won't let her express them.
And when Lois is disciplining her children, she's trying to move them up that ladder.
In later seasons, we'd see examples of Lois' bending to the rules, but this is typically
a product of her needing something from the system, like keeping her job.
Although Lois is trying to instill a higher order of morality in her kids, she's also
capable of realizing that a system requires some degree of conformity for survival.
Going back to Howe's response to Lois about the world working against the family, this
is brought into sharp focus throughout the series, and this season has some great examples.
In the episode, New Neighbors, we find out the family has had a less-than-positive relationship
with most of the other families on their street.
Families keep moving in and out of that house, I wonder why?
The neighbors here represent the world at large.
One important part of this episode is how it shows just what brings the family together,
an outside threat, like new neighbors.
I think the word everyone is tiptoeing around is feud.
Some of the better episodes intersect their various plotlines using this very principle.
The ending to Lois' birthday uses a similar conclusion, where the family bands together
to fight off a group of clowns.
The show never explains why so many clowns are hanging out at the batting cages, unless
that one birthday party had four clowns, which seems excessive to me.
The economics of hiring clowns aside, the family's ability to hold together against
outside threats is a frequent theme throughout the series.
It echoes other sitcoms featuring working-class families, where an external conflict, symbolizing
the hostility of the outside world, requires the family to band together as a single unit.
Season 2 also introduced a few memorable supporting cast members, including Cynthia, played by
Tanya Raymond, a girl in Malcolm's gifted class he has a crush on.
Although not the first or last girl Malcolm would explore his feelings for, Cynthia is
probably the most memorable.
Sadly Cynthia would only hang around until Season 4, and was replaced before then by
a rotation of increasingly forgettable love interests.
And Season 2 introduced us to another special talent held by one of the boys, Reese, who
is a gifted chef.
But Season 2's most celebrated episode, by far, is bowling.
The episode uses the premise of either Hal or Lois taking the boys out bowling, and displaying
two stories in parallel that represent the different timelines created depending on which
parent takes the boys out on that trip.
While the respective stories offer a few interesting twists and turns, it's the novelty of how
they're presented that really sets this episode apart, using creative editing techniques
to highlight each timeline transition.
The fortunes of the characters vary, and the episode contrasts Hal's loose parenting
style with Lois' stricter style to create happy endings for different boys.
A good night out is a roll of the dice, and neither parent is necessarily better than
the other, but each one has their own strengths and weaknesses.
Highly praised at the time, it won two Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Directing and Writing
for a Comedy Series for Todd Holland and Alex Reed, respectively.
To be perfectly honest, it's a struggle for me to find much to say about this episode
outside of its style.
The randomness of parenting and the largely forgettable nature of both storylines makes
me think a lot of the acclaim this episode got was for its technical achievement.
Episodes like this make me feel as though Malcolm in the Middle's more interesting
aspects were overshadowed by its style.
The better episodes did have some interesting commentary in them, but the show was so unique
in its presentation at the time that it garnered most of the critical attention.
The last episode I want to highlight from this season is Flashback, where we see how
Parenthood ruined the family's fortunes through a series of flashbacks.
The episode ends with Hell and Lois reminding each other of why they're in love.
This is such a sweet episode.
Love holds the family together in the face of their increasingly dire circumstances.
The episode is an inversion of the threats highlighted in the episodes like New Neighbors.
This shows how families create disruptions in their own lives, but unlike the hostile
world, a family can offer the very real reward of comfort and love.
Even when the world is literally raining on you and the only dry space is a house with
three screaming boys, it's not so bad when you know there's some love in there too.
Part of why I think this show struck a chord with so many people is because of that.
Most people's families are messy and complicated, but there's still a core of love in there.
This was a sitcom that dared to show an unvarnished version of that love.
Unlike the other boys in his family, Francis' plotlines are typically far removed from the
other characters in the household.
Starting the series off in a military economy, his plotlines contain their own unique supporting
cast where Francis and his buddies are constantly at odds with the demanding common-dense Spangler,
played by Daniel van Bergen.
Season 3 completely changes Francis' circumstances as he emancipates himself, letting him leave
the military academy, and heads to Alaska for promises of riches with his friend Eric
Hansen, played by Eric Neninger.
Francis' stories in the first two seasons center around rebellion against authority,
and the third is no exception.
When he travels to Alaska in season 3, he finds himself working a rough job under the
auspice of the hot-tempered Lavernia, played by Brenda Well.
Season 3 also meant the introduction of the most prominent member of Francis' supporting
cast, Piyama, played by Emmy Coligado.
Piyama introduces a shift in Francis towards more responsible behavior, eventually leading
him to work as a ranch hand in season 4, though he never quite gets it together in
a way suggested by her early appearances.
And while I think it's neat that the show included an indigenous character of an unspecified
tribe, and Coligado does do a great job in her performance, it's a little awkward seeing
an indigenous character portrayed by someone whose background is Filipino, which is literally
on the other side of the world.
Francis as a character is a symbol of unfocused rebellion.
While it might be tempting to write him off as a bad seed, Francis demonstrates kindness
and intelligence throughout the series, though it never manifests itself in the special ways
we see in his brothers.
Reese has his cooking, Malcolm is a genius, and Dewey eventually blossoms into a musician,
but Francis never gets any special skills.
As we only see him in his futile struggles against a military school trying to shape
him and a low-paying job exploiting him, this is a commentary on how the world punishes
rebellion.
With his brothers as a comparison, it appears though the family space is the one that affords
the chance to explore possibilities and push limits in a safe way, and one thing all the
boys in this family do is consistently push the limits through their acts of rebellion
against authority.
After his family sent him to military school, Francis was more or less at the mercy of the
system, and this show demonstrates that the system does not care about him at all.
He can either become a military drone or work a dead-end job in misery.
The closest we see to Francis living a happy life is in season 4, with the boss who treats
him with kindness and respect, though in this case it's an outsider to that system,
Otto Mankuser, played by Kenneth Mars.
Eventually Francis drops the ball there too, perhaps it was just too late for him to learn
how to function in society, or perhaps more accurately, Christopher Masterson would have
less of an on-screen presence on the show in later seasons.
Either way, his character remains an indictment of a system that abandons those who buck up
against it.
One moment I want to highlight in season 3 is the synthesis of some of the ideas presented
in earlier seasons.
In Los' makeover, when the boys play against Hal in a game of basketball, they come into
one of the few domains where Hal feels comfortable being a domineering patriarch.
The boys bend together to fight back.
But Hal then starts to play dirty.
Eventually they play a final game where the boys unveil their secret weapon.
The boys take down the system by punching it in the balls.
It's a nice little story about how the rules are stacked against the younger generation
until they bound together to hit it where it hurts.
So simple and so effective, this little moment I think embodies so much of what this series
is.
And in Mayan Pagan, this is where the series peaks, with its strongest message about uniting
together against an unjust authority.
It isn't pretty, but it's a response in kind, and one Hal certainly won't be forgetting.
Hal is the past and the boys are the future.
One they'll be making more just by working together.
There was still much more Malcolm in the middle to go, and season 3 had a major one-hour special
that included a number of guest stars, including Terry Bradshaw, Heidi Klum, Tom Green, Howie
Long, Christina Ricci, Magic Johnson, Bradley Whitford, who was married to Jane Kaczmarek
at the time, and Susan Sarandon, who was nominated for an Emmy in this appearance in the episode
Company Picnic.
While ratings for season 3 were strong, and Company Picnic in particular was a great performer,
the gentle decline was starting to show.
The series still had some important things to say, and would of course return to some
of its earlier themes as well.
Much of the impact it had made in its debut was starting to wear off.
As the series progressed, Malcolm's stories tended to be less about his krull-boying friends
and more about his dating life.
He had numerous love interests over the years, like the blonde one, the other blonde one,
and another blonde-haired girl.
These stories tended to downplay his intelligence, revealing that being a genius can come hand-in-hand
with being ignorant of how to act around a girl you have a crush on.
In the episode Stupid Girl, we see Malcolm actively hide his intelligence to attract
a girl named Allison, played by Brittany Finnimore.
More importantly than his love interests, Malcolm's relationship with his mother is
afforded the rare opportunity to grow when she traps him for a special talk about dating.
Malcolm's conversation with Lois was really great.
It shows us a parent-child connection that's rarely seen on sitcoms and presents it as
something healthy and productive.
Growing up involves seeing your parents as adults and learning from all their experiences.
It's hard to imagine Lois having this conversation with Reese, so maybe it's not a perfect fit
for every kid, but it's a nice contrast to seeing the boys at odds with their parents.
Sadly, this wasn't followed up in any meaningful way throughout the series, which is an example
I think of how the show was capable of producing great episodes, but couldn't change its dynamic
enough in a meaningful way to capitalize on them.
Another example of some of the limitations of the show appeared in the episode, if boys
were girls were Lois fantasizes what her life would have been like if she had had daughters
instead of sons.
Reese has become Renee, Mimi Paley, Malcolm is Mallory, Lisa Foyles, and Dewey is Daisy,
Jeanette McCurdy.
Lois's fantasy eventually makes a turn for the realistic.
The episode ends with Lois still wanting a girl, so the conclusion is satisfying enough
as it shows parental love accepts the good with the bad, but a sign of the show losing
some of its edge was watching the girls deliver the message of the episode so bluntly.
Having the moral of the story delivered in such a ham-fisted way is a lot less clever
than those earlier episodes.
One interesting bit of trivia about this episode is that the story credit went to Alexandra
Kaczynski, the 11-year-old niece of the show's costume designer Heidi Kaczynski.
I wish they had done a better job of bringing this 11-year-old visionaries idea to life.
One new idea introduced in season 4 that the series actually built upon was Dewey's special
talent, being a musical prodigy.
And we find out that Hal was a YouTuber before YouTube was even a thing.
But the most important change for the series was, undoubtedly, the birth of Jamie.
Early in this season, we found out Lois was pregnant, much like Jane Kaczmarek was at
the time.
Kaczmarek would miss several episodes because of her pregnancy, although we would see her
getting increasingly pregnant on camera as well.
This pregnancy came to the explosive finish in the two-parter titled, Baby.
The baby is named Jamie.
And while initially there is some mystery around the baby's gender, Jamie is eventually
revealed to be a boy at the beginning of season 5.
The new child undoubtedly means new hardships for the family, and perhaps that's why
the season ended not with the baby being born, but instead an episode trying to find Jamie
Daycare in an episode appropriately titled, Daycare.
In need of some assistance, the family turns to the church.
The completely non-religious family has suddenly become inspired by the word of God.
It's a simple dramatization of how religion can sometimes be less a product of spiritual
discovery and more a necessity for people who need community connections to make ends
meet.
It also introduces an interesting moment where Lois realizes something about Jamie.
In an episode where we see the family reject religion, we also see a mother who doesn't
instantly turn into a maternal force upon meeting her baby.
That's a couple of very big conventions this episode turns on their head, a rarity compared
to sitcom's past.
One of the great strengths of this show is that it takes very common ideas that might
pop into people's minds, like not loving your child as much as you think you should
or not being religious when it's expected of you, and presents these thoughts as things
not to be ashamed of, but instead to be addressed.
But living up to some unrealistic sitcom perfection is not only okay, but more realistic
than the more commonly depicted happy family on the quiet street with the picket fence.
This was a huge part of the appeal of Malcolm in the Middle, it portrayed a family that
not only behaved in ways that felt more real, it also included characters with psychology
that felt more real as well.
The birth of Jamie is often described as the point where the show began its decline in
quality, and while I'd personally say it happened a bit earlier, a decline in quality
doesn't necessarily mean the show has gotten bad.
One later season still had a few interesting things to say.
My parents tell me this is going to be a very special Thanksgiving.
In season 5, Malcolm finally gets a job.
Even though he's still in high school, he's drafted into an entry-level position at The
Lucky Aid, which is the same drugstore Lois works at.
Work is presented as boring and lacking in challenge, what's even more depressing is
that by working alongside his mother, Malcolm is getting a glimpse into his possible future.
We're proud of our 95% employee retention rate.
You may think you're just starting a job, but when you join the Lucky Aid family, you're
here for life.
He also sees a side of Lois that he hadn't before.
One minute you're telling me I'm doing a great job, and the next minute you're writing
me up.
You broke the rules, Malcolm.
Come on, that box-planting area is a stupid rule.
You know I'm right.
Albert is a grade 5 employee, he has put in 20 years of service time.
Sometimes that's more important than what's right or wrong.
Who are you?
Lois manages to convince Malcolm not to share her secret, but when the favor needs to be
returned, Lois stitches Malcolm right up.
It's not what it looks like.
Lois, are you in there?
I'll explain later.
I know exactly what this looks like to you, but I'm asking you for a little flexibility.
Trust me.
Lois, where's the- what's going on here?
Well, I'll have to write Malcolm up again.
He's flattened another box outside of the box-flattening area.
And he has no recourse.
You're growing up.
You're sick of living under my authority.
You want me to cut you some slack?
You're wondering when I'll finally see you as an adult.
Well, that's never going to happen.
That's just not the way it works.
You can move away from home, you can get married, you can have kids of your own.
You can even become a professor of physics at MIT.
I will always be your mother.
And that's just the way it is until one of us dies.
After all this time, seeing Lois go from strict but ultimately just to becoming another tool
of the system is disappointing.
This is probably the saddest lesson learned in the series, that the world that's so unfair
to Malcolm can also include his parents.
They have to live under the same system that imposes their rules on him, and in many ways
this is another example of Malcolm seeing his parents as adults, as he enters adulthood
himself.
Work is often the tool used to keep Malcolm and his family in their place.
The only reason Malcolm has to take this job is because Hal is the victim of a corporate
shake-up that he doesn't completely understand, and money is tied in the family.
Work is consistently shown as a means of being exploited by someone somewhere.
Way back in season one, in the episode, Malcolm Babysits, Malcolm gets his first ever taste
of employment working as a babysitter, only to find out that the generous couple had been
secretly recording him the whole time.
A few lines from Lois and Hal in this episode make the point especially clear.
I don't even know what they're going to pay me.
I'll tell you what they're going to pay you.
They're going to pay you what all jobs pay.
Less than your worth, and just enough to keep your crawling back for more.
So how's the job going?
They were jerks, so I quit.
Well, that's pretty much what work is.
Welcome to the club.
And in season two, we see what Hal's life would have been like outside of work, where
he dedicates his time to creating a painting.
Hal goes on a rollercoaster becoming a more effective parent, to becoming an obsessive
painter, to finally creating something truly beautiful.
I did it.
I really did it.
What's that sound?
I don't know.
It sounds like...
Look out!
Paint the lairs!
Help!
The family could never have anything good, and the world seems to constantly be working
against it.
Why do we root for these losers?
Because they never give up?
Is that what life is?
Getting knocked down over and over again?
Always getting up?
Until you die?
That piece of art that immediately self-destructs is a good metaphor from that case.
The only options Hal has now is to pick up the brush again, or forget it and go back
to work.
And who can't relate to putting your dreams on hold because you have to go up there and
make a living?
It makes Hal want to stand up and do something about it.
Although I really only mentioned this episode because it included one other moment I've
had to highlight.
I've had this cute lab partner in science for eight weeks now.
Her name is Cheryl.
I finally left Cheryl no on her desk asking her out.
And when she read it, she turned to me and said, do you know who Reese is?
So then she goes, does anybody know who Reese is?
And everybody shrugged.
So then I said, probably some nobody.
And you know what?
I was right.
Okay, now that I've brought the mood down, let's talk about Reese.
Although often presented as a dumb force of destruction, he's probably the most tragic
character in the principal cast.
Then I worked on my triceps.
I want to break up.
Oh.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's okay.
Yeah, it's fine.
No.
I was just kidding anyway about, yeah, no biggie.
Look, Reese, it's not you.
It's me.
I just think I can do better.
Reese is a very tough character to like.
He's a bully and completely heartless at times, but he's also capable of showing
some genuine concern for others, at least when it comes to his family.
I'll say grace.
Thank you Lord for giving me the talent to express my love for my family and the only
way I know how.
Amen.
In Reese's apartment, we see a great example of what's really holding him back.
He's just not that bright.
You've been using credit cards?
How much have you spent?
10, 11 grand, but I'm still way under the $20,000 limit.
How can you spend that much in 10 days?
Well, you know, I got that new convection oven, and that made the refrigerator look
kind of shabby.
Plus, I had to buy new clothes every time mine got dirty, and that giant gong in the
bathroom?
I mean, how do you guys do it?
And this is his whole character in a nutshell.
He's not that smart, and not being that smart makes an already tough world that much tougher.
His options are limited, and he's left to lash out violently.
That may be why this season ends with a two-parter titled, Reese Joins the Army, and Reese becomes
the ideal soldier.
But eventually, Reese has to turn on his brain and use his misbehaving to win the war game.
It's frightening to think that what makes Reese a good soldier is that he can go from
unthinking robot to malevolent troublemaker.
Both are apparently crucial modes for a soldier, at least according to the show, and this
season ends with Reese headed into active duty in Afghanistan.
As a character, Reese seems to have the dimmest future ahead of him.
His good qualities can only manifest in environments that he spent years carving out a space in,
and the US military is less patient with him than Lois, ready to ship him off to Afghanistan
rather than send him to his room.
Season 6 resolves the Reese plotline with Lois traveling to somewhere in non-specific
South Asia to bring him home.
With the US government failing him, Reese's only salvation is, once again, his family.
The old theme of family holding together in the face of an indifferent society returns,
albeit in a very extreme and strange way that's less compelling than it was the first
time around.
The commentary on the military could have just as easily been applied to Francis'
time in the military academy.
One major change was the larger role in the series for Dewey.
In season 5, Dewey don't mix up at his school, Dewey is placed in the special ed class and
we're introduced to a supporting cast of kids called Buseys, taking their name from
actor Gary Busey, known for his eccentric behavior.
This gives us a glimpse into the lives of the kids in the special education class.
While a premise like this could have taken a very bad turn, the show instead reveals
how placing these children in classes that have given up on them only makes things worse,
and the differences displayed between the special needs and gifted classes are so stark
that I can't help but read a very real commentary on social class differences here.
All it takes is doing poorly on some tests, and then your change in class means you'll
be perpetually falling behind your peers, forced to watch them excel in ways you'll
never have a chance to.
Much like Reese's military adventure mirrored Francis's, a change in class for Dewey and
a metaphor for a change in social class mirrors Malcolm's, although there's a less promising
future in Dewey's new class.
Season 6 takes the special ed class premise and continues to build on it, with the Busey
kids appearing in several episodes.
Each of them revolve around the basic idea that they need Dewey to take care of them,
whether it's an episode where they all run away to live in a tree, or an episode where
Dewey arranges for them to be in an opera based on his family's internal strife.
Although generally a decent depiction of kids with special needs, taking some time
to portray them as having personalities and not just a walking collection of symptoms,
their dependency on Dewey borders on depressing at times.
In the episode, Buseys take a hostage, Dewey has neglected his friends, and without his
guidance they lash out at their teacher.
This episode goes a long way in explaining how these kids, left behind by the system,
desperately cling to the one person who offers them the chance to have fuller lives, and
the fact that this person is also a kid puts a huge strain on him, and he neglects them.
It's ridiculous to imagine that a classroom full of kids should be cared for by another
kid.
This is a portrait of how society has failed the children who need them the most, and even
worse, lets them be exploited.
The episode's framing sadly obscures this point, as demonstrated by Francis' talk
with Dewey, where he's told he shouldn't shirk his responsibilities.
The idea that this should be on Dewey is completely backwards.
The kids in the class need help, and even if Dewey can somehow get them through the
year, is his life now just taking care of them?
And what about kids in other grades?
They would have to hope to get lucky enough to have a compassionate caretaker.
Dewey is forced to sacrifice his own happiness for others, and the show's framing of this
is admirable, while positive on its face, is more accurately read as a complete failure
of the system.
One person cannot fix a system on their own, though when one person makes a stand it can
sometimes inspire a greater call to action.
In the episode Billboard, the boys vandalize a giant billboard, and when caught they try
to play it off as activism.
As the episode progresses, Reese has a realization about women.
The idea of using activism to escape blame is interesting, and it fits in with the cynicism
of the show.
All the power of activism affecting change, even on the people exploiting it, demonstrates
its power.
We are who we pretend to be, after all, and maybe even performative activism is better
than doing nothing at all.
In the episode Tiki Lounge, this same idea is taken a step further when Malcolm is forced
into joining his school's booster club, a blisteringly positive group of teens always
looking to hold special events to raise money for charity.
Malcolm assumes they're just a bunch of phonies looking for an excuse to throw a party, and
their unrelenting positivity is a cover for their insincerity, while running the auction
he tries to expose their hypocrisy.
First set him up, our own Stephanie Wright has agreed to put up for auction a photograph
of herself from 8th grade, with her original nose.
I appreciate that the booster club really was passionate about the causes they claim
to care about, even though they're not very good at raising money.
It's a very kind critique of the champagne liberal stereotype.
Her hearts may be in the right place, but their methods are less than ideal.
A lot of the praise for a show like Malcolm in the Middle I see from people further on
the left often touts its realism, and that realism, especially in earlier seasons, is
often buoyed by a deep cynicism about the world.
Unlike previous episodes, though, this episode was surprisingly positive in its outlook and
conclusion, offering the important lesson that setting aside pride can help different
groups of people achieve great things.
Thinking of the modern day and the temptation of people further left to mock liberals for
their hypocrisy makes this episode seem like a stark contrast to that tendency, as it offers
a counterpoint that good things are possible when working on goals together with people
who may be misguided in their methods, but are ultimately interested in helping other
people.
And it's better to set pride aside to achieve positive change rather than sneer at people
who could be allies.
The season 7 premiere, Burning Man, took the family on the road to experience the desert
festival.
It's weirdly fitting and strangely out of place at the same time, a familiar feeling
in the later seasons.
There's one interesting part where Hal's suburban father routine is considered an art
piece.
Is this show art?
What even is art?
Is it the depiction of the real?
The unreal?
Is it an emotional experience or an intellectual encounter?
Hal's subplot seems to be asking these questions about the show, with a crowd viewing him
as a stand-in for suburbia, offering them a window into this forbidden space.
Is that, then, how we, the audience of the show, also experience it?
Or do we feel kinship with Hal's perspective, seeing these eccentrics as the outsiders?
We're watching them, watching him, but also, watching him, watch them.
What is the act of watching someone in a space we can never enter, as our stand-in
is entering it for us?
We will never go to Burning Man, or rather, we will never go to the idea we have of Burning
Man that this show is representing.
Or maybe more accurately, the show is mocking the kind of overwrought artistic interpretation
like the one I just gave.
Malcolm in the Middle is a show that, when it works, feels very real.
It's conveying the idea of the family struggling to survive in a world that sees them as commodities
to be exploited.
When they go on adventures like this one, it starts to feel less real.
It's more like a hallucination out in the desert.
The season 7 premiere scored a 3.5 in the ratings, which is a very far cry from its
earlier seasons.
On average, it was getting less than 4 million viewers per episode.
In January of 2006, Fox announced that Malcolm in the Middle would be ending this season.
Francis had largely exited the show by this point, only appearing in a handful of episodes,
but Christopher Masterson was still a part of the series, directing an episode this season
titled Hal Greaves.
Masterson wasn't the only cast member to direct an episode in the series, though.
Bryan Cranston directed several episodes in the series, including Malcolm Defends Reese,
which also aired this season.
The final season still managed to effectively hit some familiar notes, such as in Lois Strikes
Back, where Lois decides to get even with some mean girls who played a cruel prank on
Reese.
Lois uses some brutal techniques.
The idea that certain people are less deserving of justice because their troublemakers might
have landed clear had Reese been less of a jerk in earlier episodes.
It also doesn't help that the show kinda had the same premise for an episode a few
seasons back, in which a teacher flunks Reese because he thinks he's a punk.
The episode ends with Lois and Reese finally having something to bond over, the use of
cruelty to satisfy their need for justice.
Although Reese is probably just in it for their cruelty.
As the series wound down, it brought into focus Malcolm and Reese's final year of high
school, Reese having deliberately failed a grade so he could spend another year there.
Well established as a social outcast, Malcolm works with some of the other school misfits
to hold a morp, that's prom spelled backwards.
A counterparty for the prom happening in the gym, the morp is in the basement.
Malcolm's insecurity gets the better of him, and he has to confront the other kids
to let them know he and his outsider friends are having a good time.
And no one cares.
But eventually the two parties come together, bridges are mended, and the kids decide to
leave high school behind, which isn't enough for Malcolm.
Things like this that seem to contrast the Malcolm we knew just a season ago, ready to
join up with the boosters when he realizes their genuine desire to do good.
But that's not the Malcolm we have anymore.
And this represents the Malcolm we see more frequently in these later seasons where he's
not quite the charming eccentric he was originally written as.
And that brings us to the final episode of the series, Graduation, airing May 14th, 2006.
The premise for this episode is that Malcolm's family is struggling to find a way to afford
sending him to college.
Linwood Boomer, the creator of the series, makes a fun cameo in this episode, playing
on a loan shark Hal tries to get money from.
A friend of Abe, Stevie's father, shows up to offer Malcolm a shortcut, letting him skip
college and go straight into the workforce with a hefty six-figure salary.
A
garbage bomb set up by Reese goes off early in the car, and we get an exchange that sums
up the series.
I'm sorry, Malcolm, but you don't get the easy path.
You don't get to just have fun and be rich and live the life of luxury.
That's Dewey.
Really?
This is unbelievable.
You actually expect me to be president.
No, no, I'm sorry.
You expect me to be one of the greatest presidents in the history of the United States.
You look me in the eye, and you tell me you can't do it.
The show wraps up with a few interesting visuals, such as this callback to the first episode.
Another callback to the first episode is once again revealing the family's last name through
Francis' name tag at his new office job, only now the last name we see is no last name.
That name is also clearly mouthed by the speaker during graduation when Malcolm is introduced
as valedictorian.
And the scene closes with Malcolm delivering a nice speech about family.
And the series comes to an end with an epilogue, giving us a sense of where all these characters
are heading.
The final line of the series is,
Listen, I'm gonna get to my cab pass.
I'll talk to you later.
A huge part of what made the series work so well was the obvious chemistry between the
actors on screen.
It felt like a real family, and in some ways it was.
Frankie Muniz spoke to that in a recent interview.
It really did feel like a family, especially with us kids.
We spent more time together than we did with our real families.
We'd be outside playing kickball in sports, and we'd be arguing, fighting, bickering,
and playing pranks on each other just like brothers would.
So in that sense, you really do become like a family.
While the family and Malcolm in the middle was consistently at each other's throats,
they also demonstrated the love they had for one another and how protective they were against
the outside world.
That struck a chord for any family that knew how to band together when it counted.
During the end of the series, Frankie Muniz took a handful of rules over the years, but
largely stepped away from the world of acting.
Sadly Muniz has had continuing difficulties with his health, including two transient ischmetic
attacks, also known as mini-strokes, and nine concussions.
Muniz believes this is the reason his memory has been severely compromised, to the point
where he struggles to remember his time when Malcolm in the middle.
That said, he has reported memories returning to him and generally seems happy in his life.
He and his wife are expecting their first child in early 2021.
Although he was nominated for three Emmys for Malcolm in the Middle, Bryan Cranston's
career really took off in 2008 when he was cast as Walter White on Breaking Bad, a role
completely unlike Hal, and one which earned him four Emmys, enormous ratings, and glowing
praise as one of the most iconic roles on television.
So he became a pretty big deal.
Cranston has been working on high-profile projects ever since, though he clearly has
some affinity for his time on Malcolm in the Middle, going so far as to film a bonus alternate
ending to Breaking Bad, which features him waking up as Hal, realizing the Walter White
character was just a dream.
The same scene included Jane Kaczmarek, who, post-Malcolm in the Middle, found her career
completely changed, although she hasn't been cast in a role quite as prominent as Lois
since her time on the show.
In an interview, she spoke about struggling to get auditions and never being considered
for comedy roles at all prior to her time on Malcolm in the Middle.
Since the show ended, she's had a steady stream of roles on dozens of projects.
Christopher Masterson acted in a handful of projects after Malcolm in the Middle ended,
though he seems to have transitioned out of acting entirely in 2014 and now works as a
DJ.
One fun fact I found about the role of Francis is that Bryan Cranston's Breaking Bad co-star
Aaron Paul had auditioned for the role, though the part eventually went to Masterson.
Justin Burfield moved away from acting almost immediately after Malcolm in the Middle ended
and went into working as a producer, working on several projects before eventually becoming
the Chief Creative Officer at Version Produced.
Eric Purr Sullivan also stepped out of the acting world, having only appeared in four
projects after Malcolm in the Middle, the last one released in 2010.
Sullivan has largely left the public eye, though a handful of photos and appearances
have emerged in recent years.
Since the show's end, there has been some discussion on bringing Malcolm in the Middle
back in some capacity, some of the cast members shared their thoughts on a revival.
We've talked about how fun it'd be to do a reunion show, season, or a movie, and
I don't think anything excites me more.
I'd love it because I had such a great time doing the show and the whole cast was amazing.
I feel like we have more story to tell, especially 20 years later.
There were so many possibilities about what the family could be up to.
As a fan of the show, I want to know what happened.
I remember one of the final things in that final episode in 2006.
Hal and I are rejoicing that we've got two kids out of the house and I come home with
a pregnancy stick and you hear us both screaming because I'm pregnant again.
If that was true, we'd have a 14 year old.
We'd have another Malcolm at home because when the show started, Malcolm was 14.
I told Linwin this thing still resonates.
I want him to pull him out of retirement and have him write a reunion movie.
If we were to produce a Malcolm in the Middle 20 years later show, we'd absolutely contact
every single crew member to come back because that's the family.
I'm going to keep working on him.
I think I can convince him.
Like a good wine.
It endures.
It passes the test of time.
It's a classic story and series and I couldn't be prouder.
It remains to be seen if anything concrete will materialize, particularly with Linwood
Boomer seemingly content with the show not coming back.
But in August of 2020, there was a small reunion for many of the cast members on the show.
They performed a reading of the first episode of the series over Zoom.
Tickets sold to the viewing raised funds for Healing California, a charitable organization
that provides free dental, medical and vision care.
A handful of photos have emerged from the event and a number of guest stars who appeared
in the series throughout the years can be spotted making cameos.
Watching the series was a strange experience.
At the time of its airing, I was at that young age where I could relate to the younger characters,
but now I'm not quite old enough to relate to the adults with children.
Late in the series, there's a scene where Hal and a random kid are dancing on an arcade
machine that is legally distinct from a dance dance revolution machine.
In this footage, I can see my past and my future.
And while I could probably smoke both of these scrubs at DVR, I think the power of the series
is in moments like this, seemingly absurd but utterly relatable, speaking across generations.
Malcolm in the Middle was a major force in popularizing the single-camera style sitcom
on network television.
It helped end the age of laugh tracks, introduced more sophisticated uses of music, and let
characters travel to a number of exciting and not-so-exciting locations.
But through these stylistic accomplishments, at its core was the story of a family struggling
with one another and uniting together to take on the world.
The idea of life being an endless struggle is at the center of what makes this show feel
real.
It's relatable to anyone who feels that they live in a world where you can feel lost
in a crowd vanishing into faceless anonymity, like a middle child constantly overlooked
by their family.
But even though Malcolm was the middle child, if you don't count Francis, until Jamie
is born, his family never treat him that way.
Hal and Lois love all their boys, hard as that may be sometimes, and in spite of the
rough edges of their dynamic, they're there for one another.
In a recent interview, Jane Kaczmarek summed this up.
People say they're such a dysfunctional family, and I would think, are you kidding
me?
They sit down for dinner together every night.
Those kids don't get away with anything.
This is a highly functioning family.
They're mean, loud, and aggressive, but they're highly functioning.
When Malcolm runs off to one day be president, he does so with the knowledge of what it means
to suffer.
Instead of falling into a cynicism and despair, show leaves us with some degree of hope that
things might change and get better.
But Malcolm's very existence has always been absurd.
A child genius who was born in just the right circumstances to change the world around him.
The solution to the struggle Malcolm's family faces is to get extremely lucky, and that's
the hope for people like them in their world, that someone like Malcolm might be born in
the right family to make things better.
And then what are the odds of that happening?
It's an indictment of the world they live in.
And for anyone who's struggled to get ahead in the world, sometimes it feels like the
only solution is to become extremely lucky.
Something that, for most people, only exists in the world of fantasy.
So that is Malcolm in the Middle in the books.
To be honest, I had actually stopped watching Malcolm in the Middle when it was first airing
around season four or five-ish, so seeing those later seasons was a first for me.
And for anyone curious, Malcolm in the Middle is easily the most abandoned series I've had
for one of these retrospectives, and I hope people enjoyed this.
And if you really enjoyed it, why not become a patron or a member?
You can either go to my Patreon and sign up for a monthly donation, or you can click the
join button on my YouTube page and become a member.
The benefits include early access to videos like this one, download links for my theme
songs, and your name in the credits.
Like these lovely people right here.
There were so many things in this show I didn't get to mention, so if you have a favorite memory
of Malcolm in the Middle, feel free to leave it below in the comments.
Also why not like this video?
And if you haven't already, subscribe to the channel, and don't forget to ring the bell.
Thank you everyone so much for watching.
