Beginning is a right-wing news outlet in 2015, and I use the term news very loosely here.
In 2021, The Daily Wire took its first steps into the world of entertainment, with the
release of Run, Hide, Fight, a movie that answers the question, what if Die Hard took
place at a school shooting?
I already went over that movie, including its very sordid history, in another video.
It was an important milestone for the outlet, as it moved them away from news coverage that
was heavily biased in favor of the right, towards entertainment that was, supposedly,
devoid of any kind of political agenda.
Since then, The Daily Wire has expanded its offerings to four movies on its streaming
service, including one starring Gina Carano called Terror on the Prairie.
This is the first movie Carano has appeared in since being fired off The Mandalorian by
Disney for her social media activity.
In addition to movies, The Daily Wire's streaming service, recently renamed Daily
Wire Plus, has been rapidly expanding its catalog, moving into kids' shows, documentaries,
sports podcasts, and daytime chat shows.
What we're seeing is a well-financed operation that is attempting to create a media landscape
that will, supposedly, compete with mainstream entertainment.
But I don't think that tells us the whole story.
I'm sure they'd love to be making more money than Disney, but they must know how incredibly
unlikely that is.
Instead, I think something else is being built here.
But before we dig into that, we first need to take a trip to the movies.
When I made that video about Run, Hide, Fight, I considered making reviews for all of the
Daily Wire movies.
And that was the plan until I watched them.
And I realized that, while that first movie had an absolutely bonkers premise, the rest
would be far less provocative and about just as boring.
Run, Hide, Fight was produced by Bonfire Legend, and of the three movies that followed the
school shooter one, two of them were produced by Bonfire Legend.
Formerly known as Sin Estate, they changed their name after one of their producers was
charged with allegedly sexually assaulting an underage girl.
They were a small production company operating out of Texas that would make low-budget movies,
and as we go through some of these movies they bay with the Daily Wire, you'll likely
not be shocked to find out you haven't heard of any of them, and we'll likely forget them
soon after.
Della Sonnier, who founded Bonfire Legend, said in an email to IndieWire,
Bonfire Legend reflects the spirit of my firebrand of moviemaking and my personal vendetta against
disingenuous morality amidst a deeply polarized body politic.
The first major effort between Bonfire Legend and the Daily Wire was shut in.
Starring Rainy Qualey, J. Carlwitz, and Vincent Gallo.
It's about a recovering addict, Jessica, who is trying to escape the influence of the
father of her children, Rob, and his creepy friend Sammy.
The movie has a surprisingly decent first two acts, offering some pretty good tension,
but ultimately falls apart in the third act with some weak action sequences and a slightly
awkward religious message.
Although as a thriller it didn't amount to anything too memorable, its production
does tell a more interesting story.
The script for shut in was originally bought by New Line Cinema, and at one point Jason
Bateman was even attached to direct.
But because of the COVID-19 pandemic, it languished in development limbo long enough for the deal
to fall through.
Della Sonnier, who had been shopping a script around, brought it to the Daily Wire.
The script was written by Melanie Toast.
This script was the first one she ever sold, and while it had been optioned by New Line
Cinema was facing a lot of changes.
When it was brought over to Daily Wire though, it was left untouched so that the movie produced
was as it was written on the page.
While that was nice of them to do, the fact that this was the first screenplay Toast had
ever sold makes me think it might have benefited from some input from others, especially when
you look at Final Product.
It had some good ideas that just didn't come together in the final release.
And while I personally wasn't overwhelmed by the movie, I do want to acknowledge that
the writer, Melanie Toast, had no intention of working with the Daily Wire.
In a tweet from Twitter user avishaiwineburger, he wrote about shut in,
having the rights to your script get tied up with these guys without your knowing what
they are, and then they sell it as an exclusive on an alt-right site.
Again, unless you asked for this, you didn't ask for this.
What a nightmare.
Toast replied with a simple, I didn't.
Happily for her, she now has a deal with Paramount working on a horror film titled Rabbit Rabbit
Rabbit.
I'm sure her work will keep getting better and I do wish her all the best.
Other people were involved with this production though, not so much.
In particular, Vincent Gallo, with shut in being his first appearance in a movie in
nine years.
Gallo first achieved some notoriety in 1998 with his movie Buffalo 66, making him something
of an indie darling.
After that though, he really struggled to find any sort of success, and over the years
has gotten into some trouble because of his behavior.
The Daily Wire characterized him saying,
"...his brash persona rubbed plenty of people the wrong way in La La Land.
Plus he's a loud and proud Republican unwilling to play by Hollywood's rules."
Let's just get a quick sample of that brash persona.
Gallo has made a distinct impression with his online merch store where he sells one-off
t-shirts for $666, with Sogans such as F*** Black Lives Matter, and one with a picture
of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau with a homophobic slur printed on it.
He also sells his sperm for $1 million.
Here's an excerpt from that section.
This is kind of a long excerpt, but it's pretty wild, so I feel as though I have to
read the whole thing.
Mr. Gallo maintains the right to refuse sale of his sperm to those of extremely dark complexions.
Though a fan of Franco Harris, Derek Jeter, Lenny Kravitz, and Lena Horne, Mr. Gallo does
not want to be part of that type of integration.
In fact, for the next 30 days, he is offering a $50,000 discount to any potential female
purchaser who can prove she has naturally blonde hair and blue eyes.
Anyone who can prove a direct family fling to any of the German soldiers of the mid-century
will also receive this discount.
Under the laws of the Jewish faith, a Jewish mother would qualify a baby to be deemed a
member of the Jewish religion.
This would be added incentive for Mr. Gallo to sell his sperm to a Jew mother, his reasoning
being that the slim chance that his child moved into the profession of motion picture
acting or become a musical performer, this connection to the Jewish faith would guarantee
his offspring a better chance at good reviews and maybe even a prize at the Sundance Film
Festival or an Oscar.
According to Sornier, this is some kind of satire.
I'm not entirely sure what it is, it's satirizing though.
In 2020, Gallo made a post on Instagram to show his support for Donald Trump and included
in the message he wrote,
Granting women the right to vote was a mistake, and that mistake is clearer now than ever
before.
If this is all meant as some sort of elaborate performance, it's a bit strange to think
that Gallo has basically burnt his career to the ground for the sake of these outbursts.
And in the case of The Daily Wire, the joke seems to be partially lost on them.
Or perhaps these reasons are simply emblematic of why no one wants to work with this guy,
aside from those who at least partially share some of these opinions.
Of course it should also be said if The Daily Wire is willing to work with a production
company that turned a blind eye to a sexual predator who was only stopped after allegedly
assaulting an underage girl, hiring a washed-up actor who is messed up views on gender and
race might not seem so extreme.
After Shut In, the next movie released by The Daily Wire was The Hyperions starring
Carrie Ellis.
This is similar to Run, Hide, Fight in that it was produced well before The Daily Wire
had any hand in the creative process, and they're only acting as the movie's distributor.
The movie took a long and complicated route going through multiple entities before ending
up on the streaming platform, but that story isn't so interesting.
So to get straight to the point, it had been languishing for three years before finally
getting released, and no one involved in this production had any idea it would end up on
The Daily Wire.
So we don't have to hate Carrie Ellis, and we can still celebrate him dunking on Ted
Cruz.
Sadly, the movie doesn't quite come together in what seemed, at first, like a thoughtful
attempt to address Disney's commodification of superheroes.
The style owes a lot to Wes Anderson, but without the charm or authenticity.
Ultimately, it's just not a very captivating movie.
At least there were no creepy sex pests working on this one though.
Which finally brings us to the latest movie from The Daily Wire, the Gina Carano-led Terror
on the Prairie.
Back in 2020, while working on The Mandalorian, Carano made a series of tweets comparing
being a conservative to being Jewish in Nazi Germany amidst pushing conspiracy theories
of voter fraud along with other talking points you would see in more conspiracy-minded
right-wing media outlets.
So when her behavior led Carano to being fired off The Mandalorian, she rebounded very quickly
signing a deal with The Daily Wire.
If you'd like to learn more about the situation, Council of Geeks has a good video going over
the controversy that details how Gina Carano wasn't fired because she expressed the wrong
ideology, but because her stirring up controversy made Disney think she might affect how profitable
their show would be.
Regardless of what the Daily Wire crew tell you, it's not being woke these corporations
care about, it's making money, and Gina Carano was fired because her behavior might
affect Disney's bottom line.
Although the first movie Carano was supposed to work on was titled White Knuckle, about
a woman who was targeted by a serial killer trucker, this was supposedly put on hold because
of COVID requirements for filming.
So instead, The Western, Terror on the Prairie, which was filmed in Montana, became the first
movie Carano would star in for The Daily Wire.
According to producer Dallas Sonnier, it was the looming federal vaccine mandates that
made him put White Knuckle on hold.
Why a federal mandate wouldn't also apply to Montana, which last I checked was still
in the United States, wasn't explained.
Let's actually go into some detail about the content of this movie.
Terror on the Prairie is about Hattie, the wife of a struggling farmer who has to defend
herself and her two children from four men while her husband is in town looking for work.
It's a siege of a small wooden cabin in the wilderness.
Eventually, the good characters end up happily and the bad unhappily because, as Oscar Wilde
once wrote, that is what fiction means.
Like Run, Hide, Fight, and Shut In, this movie resists interpretation as it exists largely
to service action sequences and tension.
But that doesn't mean it isn't saying anything.
Taking place shortly after the Civil War, we find out that Hattie's husband Jeb, played
by UFC fighter Donald Cerrone, was a former Confederate soldier who apparently turned
on his commanding officer.
When he and some of his fellow soldiers tried to murder their captain, they ended up killing
his daughter instead, leading the captain, played by Nick Cersei, to hunt them all down.
Which is how these four men ended up outside his Montana home.
The pride of Jeb and Hattie's son, of being an American, is contrasted with Jeb's shame
being a former Confederate, introduces an interesting tension in a post-Civil War America,
where the losing side has to reckon with their actions.
Whether it's shame for fighting on the wrong side or the humiliation for having lost, Jeb
still has to look his son in the eye knowing that he once fought against what his son holds
up as pure and good.
And Jeb's whole project to move to Montana further cements the westward expansion of
the United States.
So in addition to that shame or humiliation, Jeb is now in service to the state he once
fought against.
It's a thorough emasculation in a time and genre where a rugged masculinity would be
highly valued.
Had this movie been about Jeb, I think it might have been more interesting.
But instead we focus on Hattie, a character who doesn't seem to be quite as interesting
aside from the fact that she seems to come from a wealthy family and has given it up
to run off with Jeb to Montana.
She is the housewife who holds the family together while her husband is off trying to
make something of himself.
And it could have been an interesting look at the role women played in the 19th century
and the heavy burden of maintaining a household.
But by exploring that through a violent confrontation, it could struggle in survival in the west
with masculine signifiers, like fighting off bandits.
There is an irony here that I almost agree with the Daily Wire crew who generally seem
to get upset at female characters who star in action movies, especially those who adopt
male traits as some form of female empowerment.
The difference between us is that the action movie dynamic isn't interesting to me because
it traps displays of strength in a movie behind very old masculine-coated tropes.
Instead of letting female and male characters alike find other ways of demonstrating their
inner strength.
The only time we see Hattie making an impact where she isn't wielding a gun or in some
way fighting off bad guys is early on when we see her treat an indigenous character's
injuries, an experience that seems to rattle her.
Which is strange because in 50 minutes she'll be quite competently setting up barricades
and smashing windows to fight off the captain and his goons.
Still, her ability to treat someone medically is an interesting and thoughtful way of showing
how important and crucial a character like her is in this kind of environment.
And the fact that these are the only indigenous characters we see in the movie is also interesting.
This scene can be seen as a whitewashing of sort of the westward expansion of the United
States, doing a little bit to help the indigenous populations and then having their own wacky
adventures on land that was recently stolen.
Back to those action scenes that make up the bulk of the movie though, it's strange that
they're not scarier for Hattie.
Perhaps they seem scarier written down, but they don't really come across on camera.
That's probably because one of the biggest issues this movie has is that Gina Carano
just doesn't seem up to the task of leading the film.
I'm not deeply familiar with her acting history, so I don't know how this compares to her
previous work too much, but this performance on Terror on the Prairie is flat and lifeless.
She has the steely attitude of an action hero in the context of a western thriller.
As an example of how little she seems to be trying, consider the fact that Hattie is supposed
to be from Missouri and should have an accent.
It really seems that if Gina Carano was not going to do an accent for this movie, they
perhaps should have just dropped that line entirely.
Speaking of bad acting, the scenes between Carano and Cerrone are an absolute struggle
to watch.
Nick Cersei does an okay job as the captain, but otherwise the acting in this movie really
takes it down some.
It's bad enough to be distracting and undermined what I suspect is a movie about the role women
in the West had in holding households together, albeit awkwardly presented through the language
of violence.
It might be easy enough to ignore the clumsy messaging of this movie if the action were
interesting or exciting, but much of it is slow and clumsy.
Since it's the 19th century, we see a lot of people running around from not very far
distances as their guns struggle to hit anything.
The captain and his gang try a few schemes to get Hattie and her kids out of the house,
with varying degrees of failure, and we see our heroes eventually triumph while ignoring
their gunshot wounds.
In other words, basic action movie cliches.
It's a real shame we couldn't get a better female-led Western out of this thing, because
that is one of the few unique things Terror on the Prairie brings to the table.
Of the many, many Westerns produced in the last century, a minuscule number of them feature
female leads.
Ahead of this movie, I tried watching the few I could find, and it was a challenge just
to locate any female-led Westerns.
Some of the classics include Annie Get Your Gun and Calamity Jane, both musicals respectively
about Annie Oakley and Calamity Jane, who were both popular acts from the Buffalo Bill
traveling Western show from the early half of the 20th century.
There is also Annie Colder, starring Raquel Welch, about a woman who hunts down some outlaws
who wronged her.
In the 90s, there was The Quick and the Dead, starring Sharon Stone, about a female gunfighter,
and the most recent female-led Western I could find was Meeks Cut-Off, which, to be honest,
felt a little more like an ensemble piece than having a strong female lead.
Although it was certainly the best of the movies I watched.
Terror on the Prairie owes something to Annie Colder, as it has a similar premise, although
when it comes to Annie Colder, that movie is all over the place with its tone.
But through that madness, I still see Annie as a more believable character, as her journey
in this movie takes her from being a housewife to becoming a gunfighter, driven by her vendetta.
It's an old Western cliché, but it makes more sense than Terror on the Prayer's Hattie,
who somehow is able to fight off a siege at her farmhouse.
There's no development or growth.
Just the bad guy shows up, she fights them, and eventually, through a few twists of fate,
she wins.
It's not much of an arc.
Annie Get Your Gun and Calamity Jane both being musicals means they center on love stories,
but both tell fun stories about women who are underestimated by them and around them,
gradually building respect amongst their peers.
Calamity Jane in particular says a lot of interesting things about gender roles, with
people often treating Jane like a man.
Her relationship with Wild Bill Hickok is built on a strong mutual respect, though romance
and feelings between the two can only be reciprocated when Bill finally sees Jane fit
into a more traditional gender presentation.
There's even a scene where a male actor is forced to pretend as though he were a woman.
In other words, this movie is making a lot of claims on how superficial gender roles
are, even in the very sharply defined world of the Western.
Terror on the Prairie could be implicitly making many of the same claims, but it's
so enraptured with its violence and intestinity that it never really pauses to explore these
questions.
It's read as an inversion in the characters of Hattie and Jeb, but everything else is
such a standard Western cliché that it struggles to say anything of substance, even when its
very premise is a direct challenge to gender roles in Western movies.
It makes the whole thing feel like a wasted opportunity.
So in short, I didn't like this movie very much.
I give it a 2.34 out of 12.
If you're wondering where Terror on the Prairie ranks amongst the female-led Westerns I've
seen, I'd place it roughly here, slightly below Handy Calder.
Maybe it seems like being the worst is a harsh criticism, but when there are so few
of these to begin with, it's actually not saying that much at all.
I just didn't like it.
The Daily Wire likes to characterize its movie and productions as being politically neutral.
That is, they want to make movies for everyone, not just a conservative audience, and they're
willing to work with anyone regardless of their politics.
And while I'm sure they would accept any celebrity who would help raise the profile
of their productions, they are quite obviously building a very conservative group of creative
people to work for them and are deliberately targeting a conservative audience.
Here's The Daily Wire's co-founder Jeremy Boring lying through his teeth.
As I showed you a few moments ago, Gina Carano's politics are not a mystery.
She is obviously and clearly conservative.
For Jeremy Boring to say this, in 2022, must be dishonesty.
She's not sure how far right she is, but she's clearly somewhere on the right.
Ahead of Terror on the Prairie's premiere, Dallas Sonnier, who was a producer on the
movie, posted on Instagram to thank his supporters who,
"...keep us motivated as we fight the commies for the right to live our lives freely and
watch our movies without garbage indoctrinations."
And when the crew took a photo in production, they posed with a giant red flag that read,
Let's Go, Brandon.
I wonder if that person regrets buying such a big memento for a dead meme mocking Joe
Biden.
Nick Cersei, who played the captain on Terror on the Prairie, is an outspoken conservative,
never letting a tired meme go to waste.
He joked on Twitter that while shooting Terror on the Prairie, he named his horse Brandon.
So he could say, Let's Go, Brandon, while riding.
For all the talk about keeping politics out of movies and how little they care about the
politics of the creative people they work with, the actual productions of these movies
have a distinctly right-wing flair to them.
It may just be that no one wants to work with The Daily Wire because they spread white-wing
propaganda, or it could also be that no one wants to work with them because their movies
are on a streaming service with a subscriber base less than 1% of Netflix or Disney+.
But still, they are getting talent to sign up with them, and there must be a reason.
And I think we got a pretty good indication why at the red carpet premiere for Terror
on the Prairie.
Here's Gina Carano being interviewed as to why she chose to work with The Daily Wire.
Why was it so important for you to work with The Daily Wire?
I'm sure you had tons of people knocking down your door.
Why'd you pick The Daily Wire?
Well, there was a big massive company that fired me.
I didn't hear about that.
It was a big deal.
They didn't want to work with me, which made the rest of the industry not want to work with
me.
And then all of a sudden, Daily Wire popped up and they were like, We want to work with
you.
And I was like, Wow, I want to work with you too.
And that's basically how it happened.
It's very cute that the interviewer tried to make it sound as though Gina Carano was
being highly sought after, and her response is that she actually didn't have many other
options.
Outside of her work with The Daily Wire, Carano is also set to appear in another movie, this
one titled My Son Hunter, which is about Hunter Biden.
In spite of the production photo of Hunter living a blessed life, this movie sounds like
it's capitalizing on the right wing obsession with Hunter Biden.
Gina Carano's options as an actress seem pretty limited.
Another familiar face at the red carpet premiere, and the only person you might have heard of
who is not currently on the Daily Wire's payroll, as far as I know, was Rob Schneider.
I got a bit of heat on Twitter saying Rob Schneider was the only celebrity not in the
movie to show up to this premiere.
And I want to once again sincerely apologize for using the term celebrity to describe Rob
Schneider.
I'll try to do better.
There are creative people who work on these movies who haven't had much mainstream success.
And considering how tough it is to make it in show business, it's understandable someone
taking whatever work might come their way, and hopefully some of them will move on to
bigger and better things.
But when it comes to these known quantities in Hollywood, it seems the only people who
want to do work with The Daily Wire are conservative celebrities who can't get a job anywhere
else or who aren't really quite on the A-list.
Using their shared ideology to get a quick payday for a series of movies that are forgotten
halfway through watching them.
After all the bravado of competing with Hollywood, so far The Daily Wire's attempt at making
movies has been a bit of a thud.
But feature films are only one part of a much larger enterprise that this right-wing outlet
is embarking on.
First off, not all of their movies are feature films.
While everyone is aware of Matt Walsh's abysmal documentary What is a Woman because
of the blanket advertising it saw here on YouTube back in June, The Daily Wire has also
made several other movies in that vein, including Choosing Death, The Legacy of Ro, China,
The Enemy Within, and Bouchie Unmasked.
Hilariously on the Daily Wire website, above this section it reads, The only agenda is
entertainment.
As if the upcoming movie from Candace Owens, called The Greatest Lie Ever Told, about George
Floyd and the rise of Black Lives Matter, is somehow going to be devoid of any agenda
or in any way be entertaining.
But The Daily Wire doesn't just stream bad movies and publish right-wing propaganda masquerade
in his news.
Of course, the major hosts of The Daily Wire, Ben Shapiro, Candace Owens, Matt Walsh, Andrew
Clavin, and Michael Knowles all have their own shows.
Although for some reason Candace Owens is the only one who doesn't get her full name
in the title.
They've also got several regular programs you've probably never heard of, such as
Ben Shapiro's Debunked, where he spends 15 minutes or less misreading science to explain
how climate change is no big deal or that God exists.
There's also Daily Wire Backstage, where Jeremy Boring assembles the bros to engage
in the classic manly pastimes of drinking scotch, smoking cigars, and crying about someone
being mean to them on Twitter.
And then there's Crane and Company, sports coverage that is supposedly not woke.
I've never quite figured out what this means, and looking at the descriptions of their programming,
it mostly seems like pretty standard stuff.
Like when they say the Toronto Maple Leafs are going to blow it in the playoffs, it's
what Leafs fans have known for decades.
The reason they might appeal to the right-wing Daily Wire audience is that part of their
sports coverage includes things like this.
For some context, this little tirade from Jake Crane comes after LeBron James criticized
the US government for not doing enough to free Brittany Greiner, who was arrested in
Russia in February of this year on drug charges, and she has been detained there for over five
months.
Now in most countries around the world, LeBron would have never had the chance to reach the
heights that he has.
But maybe it's time we the people start to push back a little bit on this diva, this
propaganda puppet for the CCP, this race hustler, and the same guy who told an innocent cop,
you're next.
Maybe we should trade LeBron for Brittany so he can start to form an appreciation for
the greatest country on earth.
This is what ESPN is apparently missing.
Long rant about how athletes don't love America enough.
Even if you want to step away from the screen, the Daily Wire is now publishing books, much
in the way their movies are courting conservatives who have talked themselves out of work.
Their book publishing wing is picking up books that were dropped by mainstream outlets.
For example, in April of 2021, Simon & Schuster decided not to publish a book by Sergeant
Jonathan Mattingly, who was one of the officers who fired shots during a narcotics raid that
killed Breonna Taylor.
It was published by the Daily Wire under the title, 12 Seconds in the Dark, a police officer's
first-hand account of the Breonna Taylor raid.
While they've published four books so far, none of them have cracked the New York Times
bestseller list.
I will tell the Daily Wire right now, though, that if they publish another Ben Shapiro novel,
I will make that book a bestseller.
On June 29, 2022, the Daily Wire made another announcement that they were expanding even
further.
To do this, they hosted Daily Wire Backstaged Live at the Ryman, which is a theater in Nashville,
this city where the Daily Wire currently operates out of.
The first hour and 50 minutes of this presentation is a long, drawn-out series of appearances
from many of the faces of the Daily Wire, featuring a lengthy version of their backstage
program live, this time including special guest Candace Owens.
You might have seen that clip of her online talking about how abortion wasn't happening
during the time of slavery.
Amy Schumer, same thing.
She came out and gave a statement about this is exactly what the slaveholders wanted.
And I was like, I would like a further explanation as to what you are talking about when you
make that statement, because there was there was no abortion happening when we had slaves.
What are you what are they saying?
Anyone with some knowledge of history knows that this simply isn't true.
Many forms of abortion have existed for thousands of years, and there were no laws regarding
abortion at all in the United States until 1821.
And it wasn't until the 1860s when abortion became illegal before quickening.
Quickening is when you can first feel kicking inside the womb, roughly 16 to 20 weeks into
a pregnancy.
The real purpose of this evening was to make several special announcements about the Daily
Wire's newest projects and to present the rebranding of their streaming service as Daily
Wire Plus.
I'm proud to announce that as of this very moment, we are launching Daily Wire Plus.
One of the announcements that was completely expected was their kids content initiative,
something that was already announced back in March when they pledged to invest $100
million into the project over three years.
The big reveal here was a trailer for their newest series, Chip Chillas.
This looks completely generic and uninteresting, but hey, I'm an adult, so it's not really
for me.
I do suspect it might get a little political in its content because the kids division is
being fronted by Eric Branscom and Ethan Nicole, who are respectively responsible for the Christian
themed series Veggie Tales and the Babylon Bee.
At the very least, it seems likely that there will be some religious messaging in these
shows.
Also, they already announced this show over two months before this event, except they
were calling it Chilla Time back then.
Suspiciously absent from this event was the other kids show they had already announced,
Doodle with Noodles.
Perhaps they've just run into some legal trouble with the YouTube channel Gourmet Quilter
for stealing the name of one of its segments.
The next announcement was The Daily Wire's continuing partnership with PragerU, where
all of PragerU's content would be made available on Daily Wire Plus.
This announcement seems even stranger, as PragerU's content is largely free already,
and they also announced they would be featuring PragerU content back in 2020.
But there is at least one new exclusive, something called the PragerU Masters Program
with Dennis Prager, videos in which, I imagine, Dennis Prager will offer pearls of wisdom,
such as why marital rape is okay.
If your husband is a good man, if you respect him, if he treats you beautifully, then don't
only allow your mood to determine whether you sleep with him.
That was the thesis of it.
Of course there are times when obviously that will determine, but not always.
Just as mood cannot determine, almost anything good that we do, I don't determine whether
I go to work based on my mood.
Comparing having sex with your spouse with going to work really reveals a lot.
I did take some time to read the article Prager wrote when he was referencing this ridiculous
statement though, and it's even more wild than that clip suggests.
Here's a deranged excerpt.
A husband knows that his wife loves him first and foremost by her willingness to give her
body to him.
This seems not only disrespectful to women, placing their primary value in a relationship
as their body, it also degrades men as deciding to be with someone primarily because of said
body.
And this article was actually a two parter where he just digs himself deeper and deeper,
and it reads like this despicable emotional blackmail.
But it does include one section that did make me laugh.
If most women wait until they are in the mood before making love with their husband, many
women will be waiting a month or more until they next have sex.
If a woman is only in the mood once a month or less, I'm going to take a wild guess
that she either has a very unusually low sex drive or perhaps more likely the man in her
life isn't appealing to her sexually.
It is very funny to me that Dennis Prager wrote this.
Going back to the Daily Wire thing, the big announcement that evening wasn't some forgettable
cartoon or Dennis Prager once again revealing himself to be a monster, it was the announcement
that the Daily Wire would be producing content with Jordan Peterson.
The crowd, as you can tell from that reaction, are very excited.
At this event, Jordan Peterson seemed a bit off.
His usual word salad wasn't full effect, but he struggled to lift his gaze from the
ground and seemed to be spending less time on building caveats to everything he was saying
and instead drifted into entirely different subjects.
Maybe it was an off night for him, though considering his recent health concerns, we
might be seeing some of the lasting impact of those challenges.
Either way, it was kind of sad to watch.
This announcement did mean we would be getting more slickly produced Jordan Peterson content,
including one of the best new memes of the year.
And that was about all the new content people can expect on Daily Wire Plus.
A kid show that was already announced, a new PragerU show, and a new Jordan Peterson
series.
We didn't get a trailer for their next upcoming movie or any information on their TV series
that they teased a year and a half ago.
The main reason for this event seems more like a push to generate as many subscribers
now so they can afford the content they want to make in the future.
The Daily Wire doesn't sound like the storming success they act like.
If they were a startup, it would be more understandable, but it's been a year and a half since they
announced their plans to go into movies.
And if their new initiatives are as compelling as Shut In or Terror on the Prairie, it hardly
seems like a wise investment.
It's really hard to know how well the Daily Wire is doing financially.
I found a few numbers detailing their performance, but since their records are all private, it's
tough to really piece together anything.
Here's what level I could find.
According to their website, when the Daily Wire was launched in 2015, it did so with
investment from Ferris Wilkes, a billionaire in the fracking industry.
It's a bit unclear if they still receive any funding from Wilkes, though reading their
former About section on their website, it reads,
This statement, of course, doesn't mean that the Daily Wire isn't still receiving money
from Ferris Wilkes separately or through one of the other entities controlled by the brothers.
And the Wilkes brothers have a long history of supporting right-wing causes in the past,
such as providing funding for PragerU and the 2016 presidential campaign for Ted Cruz.
This very defensive-sounding About section has since been replaced with something more
generic.
In 2022, speaking to Axios, co-founder of the Daily Wire, Jeremy Boring claimed that
they had a 12-month revenue of $100 million in January of 2022, up from $65 million in
the previous year.
According to Forbes in April of 2022, Boring claimed that the Daily Wire had a run rate
of $150 million a year, a run rate being a predictor of future performance for the company.
He also said they had 600,000 subscribers.
At the June live event, he revealed that the current subscriber count is now 890,000.
We have hit a huge milestone, 890,000 active subscribers.
A nearly 50% increase in subscribers in the space of two months is pretty stunning, though
aside from Matt Walsh's documentary, I'm not sure what changed for the streaming service
between April and June to lead to such a big jump.
In a press release, the newly revised run rate for the company was up to $200 million
a year.
It does seem strange that, with a subscriber increase of nearly 50%, the run rate has only
gone up by 25%.
But I have no idea how they're calculating their future growth, so maybe it all makes
sense if you can see their actual numbers.
Subscribers aren't the only source of revenue for the company, they also run a number of
ads in their content.
It's hard to estimate exactly what they're earning in these ad spots, but presumably
it must be a sizable portion of their revenue.
So of the few metrics we have, the Daily Wire seems to be making decent money.
Whether or not they're covering their expenses, which includes producing several movies and
documentaries, web shows, kids programming and their book publishing, selling razors,
and of course, paying their 200 employees, it's not entirely clear that they can afford
all of these enterprises.
Boring was adamant about not taking the company public, though.
Where does this $100 million come from?
I'm wondering myself.
I can tell you this.
The Daily Wire has been approached by six different entities in the last three months
about doing a public offering by way of a SPAC.
And we have said no.
Not being publicly traded also means that their financial statements will not be readable
by the public.
So while Boring did tease that the company may go public in the future, it remaining
private lets them operate without us having any real insight to how they're doing financially,
aside from what they say in their marketing, which obviously is going to put them in their
best light possible.
Boring also had fun sharing less helpful statistics.
And for 18 months over the last two years, we were the number one publisher in the world,
the most engaged publisher in not the most engaged conservative publisher, not the most
engaged news publisher, the most engaged publisher of any kind in the world on the number one
platform, Facebook.
This is a very convoluted stat.
For one, those 18 months are not consecutive if they were across two years.
And while social media traction is important, it's strange to mention Facebook and only
Facebook and engagement doesn't mean getting the most views on the platform, but rather
getting the most reaction from viewers.
That is getting people to click one of those little reaction buttons on the page.
Unsurprisingly, political content designed to enrage or rile people up gets a lot of
clicks.
In October of 2020, Facebook pushed back against the idea that engagement reflects overall
popularity with an article that shows how political content is more likely to get engagement
but tends to rank much lower in overall reach compared to content from more neutral sources
such as videos with cute animals.
The data being from 2020 may not be entirely applicable to the present, but it does underscore
how engagement is a selective stat that doesn't necessarily reflect overall popularity on
the platform.
Of course, that doesn't mean that it's a meaningless stat or that the Daily Wire is
doing poorly.
High engagement is obviously a very good thing for them.
Much like their financial numbers, we should just take this stat with a grain of salt as
it's obviously part of their marketing.
But there is an interesting strategy being deployed by the Daily Wire regarding its social
media success, particularly on Facebook.
According to research from The Markup, a non-partisan, non-profit data research organization, the
Daily Wire strategy isn't really to target all Americans, but instead be the destination
for conservatives.
And their online marketing reveals their partisan approach.
This is in stark contrast to other media outlets which cast a wider net.
The Markup article includes comments from Francesca Tripodi, an assistant professor
at UNC School of Information and Library Sciences at Chapel Hill.
She said,
As you're looking at this dataset, to me it shows that mainstream media outlets like
the New York Times are still approaching the internet as a collective space in which you
could potentially learn about anything, from research or science to family and relationships.
But Daily Wire, if you're saying, we only want to target people who are interested in
conservatism in America, that creates this bifurcated or dual internet, and that allows
for information to circulate unchecked.
This means the Daily Wire's success isn't necessarily coming from the mainstream, but
rather it's targeting a specific audience, and that audience is incredibly receptive
to their message.
The Daily Wire is behaving less like a traditional media outlet, attempting to spread news to
everyone and more like a corporation targeting potential customers looking for a very specific
product.
An example used in the article is that they're acting like a food brand serving ads to people
who like potato chips.
The Markup also found that the Daily Wire uses a lot of tracking tools.
Using Blacklight, a website privacy inspector, on August 4th, 2021, they found 41 ad trackers
and 117 third party cookies on the Daily Wire's homepage.
In comparison, looking at the 100,000 most popular websites in September of 2020, on
average they used 7 ad trackers and 3 third party cookies.
In addition to making use of tracking tools and targeting specific communities, the Daily
Wire also invests a lot of money in sponsored posts promoting its content.
Earlier this year, Vice published an article detailing how the Daily Wire spent between
$35,000 and $47,000 on Facebook and Instagram ads promoting articles about the lawsuit between
Amber Heard and Johnny Depp.
One article in particular about the supposed character assassination of Johnny Depp had
somewhere between $20,000 and $25,000 alone promoting it by the Daily Wire.
Unsurprisingly, these articles included misinformation about the trial with the major article I
just mentioned having to include an embarrassing editor's note correcting the fact that Johnny
Depp did not disprove 12 of the 14 allegations against him.
But I want to highlight just how much money is being spent by the Daily Wire to promote
their coverage of a single news story.
While we don't have concrete numbers on how much the Daily Wire spent on social media
ads in general, we can be sure their engagement is being driven by more than organic interest
in their content.
While this may paint the picture that the Daily Wire is particularly good at gaming
Facebook systems to build an audience further content, we also need to take into consideration
its history with the platform and how it built such a following on Facebook.
A 2019 article on popular information highlighted 14 large Facebook pages that seemingly operated
as independent outfits, sharing right-wing news stories.
These 14 pages were fairly popular with a combined total of 8 million fans, and they
all had generic names such as conservative news or don't mess with America.
Only these supposedly independent outlets exclusively reposted Daily Wire articles,
with many of them making identical posts down to the same minute, meaning these 14 pages
all, coincidentally, only thought the Daily Wire posted anything worth sharing and all
shared new articles the second they went live.
Or what was more likely here is that these supposedly independent pages were all being
secretly operated by the Daily Wire, which would be in violation of Facebook's rules.
When this 2019 article was published, all of these pages would eventually update their
about sections to include the line, proudly managed by the Daily Wire.
Although for some reason don't mess with America's page only reads, proudly managed
be.
This newfound pride over their management only became clear after Facebook updated its
transparency standards and only after this strategy was exposed.
The popular information article also highlights how, by not disclosing this relationship,
the Daily Wire was in violation of Facebook's terms of service.
In the past, similar behavior from other groups had led to those pages being banned, but the
Daily Wire seems to have been given a pass.
Also in this same article, they spoke to a former Facebook employee who identified a
bias towards right-wing media by Joel Kaplan, Facebook's head of global public policy
and a former member of the George W. Bush administration.
The former employee is quoted saying,
"...anytime there is an issue with Breitbart or Daily Caller, Joel made the decision, and
he always acted to protect them."
There was also that well-documented 2019 dinner between Ben Shapiro and Mark Zuckerberg that
was held to supposedly talk about free speech on the platform.
It also puts into perspective that Facebook story I mentioned a bit earlier about the
limitations of engagement.
I do still think it has valid information highlighting that engagement isn't the end
of the story and it isn't the best stat to monitor success on Facebook, but it could
also be that Facebook is instead trying a way to spin the news that their algorithm
is pushing right-wing media so hard.
Far from being silenced by big tech, allying the Daily Wire love saying it by themselves,
when it comes to the Facebook platform specifically, the Daily Wire seems to be given more space
to break the rules and they have access to the biggest guy in the company.
Even though these days, those 14 aforementioned Facebook pages aren't the driving force
and don't get quite as much engagement as, say, Ben Shapiro sharing a story would, I
think it's important to remember their foundational work.
It was crucial in building up the Daily Wire's audience in its earliest years and it reveals
that the secret to their growth isn't genuine organic interest in their content, but rather
the Daily Wire exploiting their relationship with Facebook to cheat the system in ways
other publishers couldn't.
Forgettable movies, the gnashing of conservative teeth, and an aggressive social media campaign
that courts a right-wing audience.
What does any of this mean?
What the Daily Wire is attempting to do is create an all-encompassing bubble for right-wing
media.
They may talk a big game about taking on Disney or Netflix and when it comes to profits, maybe
that really is the dream.
But looking at their current strategy, it's less built on appealing to the mainstream
in some kind of bid to replace them and instead appealing directly to conservative audiences.
Looking back on its movies, content they allege is politically neutral, they market
this content as rejecting the mainstream supposedly woke voices of Disney.
They say quite explicitly that these movies are for people who feel as though Hollywood
hates them.
They'll still let you watch their movies, of course, their TV shows, their news, their
sports, but you'll have to do it knowing that everyone who made that content, at least
everyone at the top, hates you.
You have to watch it knowing that every dollar you spend on theater tickets, on cable bills,
on streaming subscriptions is going to the people that hate you, funding their hatred
of you.
Not only that, but they're going to spend every day on Twitter, every spare moment at
every award show, and just about every second of every show that they make reminding you
of the fact that they hate you.
Their concept of the average American happens to be the American who agrees with them.
In other words, conservatives.
By offering a program that includes sports, kid's shows, political commentary, documentaries
and TikTok-style videos, they are trying to appeal to as many people as possible, who
adhere to their conservative values.
And once they have these people, I suspect the goal is to keep them trapped in their
media bubble, and to own the conservative media niche.
This isn't a new strategy, and we can see something similar when it comes to the world
of Christian media.
The Left Behind books, which tell the story about how the rapture will affect the world,
have sold over 65 million copies.
Unless you're a fan of the cinematic stylings of Kirk Cameron or Nicolas Cage, there's
a pretty good chance you haven't heard of them, but they've sold more copies than
the Magic School Bus, the Hardy Boys, and Tarzan.
The Christian music scene, which, while often a punchline in the mainstream, has been chugging
along for decades, making stars and earning millions of dollars.
And if you watch certain videos here on YouTube, you might even be familiar with the Christian
movie scene, which includes the classics God's Not Dead, Christmas with a capital C, and
Heaven is for Real.
And naturally, Christian movies have their own streaming service, Pure Flix.
The Christian media scene has existed for decades, and it's been making huge amounts
of money the whole time.
Part of what makes it work is that it has a faithful audience that is, sometimes, ready
to spend big money for media that reaffirms their worldview.
Although in the world of Christian media, there are many different stakeholders and
platforms offering their own services.
Products and industries with their own ecosystems have always existed, of course, usually occupying
niches.
If you're a fan of anime, you get your own little section on Netflix, or you can get
streaming services directly for that.
And of course, there's merch, movie screens, and other fun bonuses that come with being
into it.
What separates Christian media from niche interests like these, though, is that it builds
this strange parallel universe by explicitly rejecting the mainstream, unless the mainstream
accepts them, to create its own bubble of content.
A random person can probably name an anime, but unless someone is in that Christian media
bubble, whether they're enjoying it as an insider or mocking it as an outsider, you'd
be hard-pressed to find many people who have even heard of the biggest hits in that space.
If you took a random sample of people, I think the odds are pretty good that more of them
would recognize Dragon Ball than they would Gods Not Dead.
Also for the record, I'm pretty sure Goku could beat up Kevin Sorbo.
The Daily Wire is taking this strategy of creating an insular bubble of content and
going a step further, creating a parallel landscape for conservative media, but trying
to do it all themselves in what might become one giant company.
They want to be the one-stop-shop for anything and everything in the conservative media space,
and to capture that audience that supposedly feels threatened by the mainstream.
And if they aren't feeling threatened, then the Daily Wire is happy to publish all the
propaganda they need to create that fear.
I'm not enough of a media expert to make any predictions on whether or not they'll
be succeeding.
It is pretty plain that they are spending a lot of money, not just on production, but
on marketing for all of their content.
One of the things they touted during their media presentation, and in many other instances
when they speak to the public, is their platform's ability to market content.
Part of that seems to be the unwavering devotion their core audience seems to have, willing
to buy razors or children's books if the Daily Wire tells them to.
How else can one explain them selling these ridiculous truth bombs on their website for
$174?
Though it does remain to be seen just how large this core audience is, and how much
more the Daily Wire can expand it.
The success of the Daily Wire's media venture rests on the idea that they can continue to
expand their audience and recoup all these expenses.
Jeremy Boring repeatedly emphasized the need for the Daily Wire to keep growing.
Some of that, I'm sure, is motivated by the profit they want to make, but it's probably
a necessity to pay for all these projects that are likely in need for funding.
The fate of this media venture may reflect, in dollars and cents, the strength of the
conservative movement in America.
If it truly does have the popular support it would require to fund all of this, then
it may very well be that the niche of American conservatives is enough to build a media empire.
But if it fails, it would instead reflect how the American public isn't as conservative
as the Daily Wire imagined them to be.
Or it might fail and prove that the Daily Wire was never any good at producing media
outside of hate-fueled clickbait.
This video is a little different from my previous ones as it kind of feels like two videos squished
together, but I just felt as though the two subjects complimented each other really well
and when talking about the Daily Wire, I wanted to go a bit deeper than just looking at a
movie or only looking at their business ventures.
So I hope this fits together well enough and that you enjoyed it.
And if you really enjoyed it, do consider becoming a patron or a member for the channel.
You can see the names of some of those people on the screen right now and don't they look
lovely?
They also get early access to videos along with some other fun bonuses that I surprise
them with every now and again.
If you would like to support this channel in a non-monetary fashion, you can like, comment,
subscribe, hit the bell for notifications, and also consider sharing it on social media
because that helps out too.
If you'd like to leave a comment and don't know what to say, how about pitching your
idea for a movie for the Daily Wire and maybe they'll read it into it.
Thank you all so much for watching.
