In my first video, I went into detail about the leftist politics that are often on display
throughout much of the first nine seasons of Roseanne. If you haven't watched my video,
maybe give it a shot. Much like the series itself, it ended on an unsatisfying note with no meaningful
conclusion. Aside from that, working class people are constantly getting crushed in a system that
isn't designed to help them. This important message was brought to us by a woman who acted
like the dictator of her show. It's one of the many contradictions of Roseanne Barr and her TV
series, and one that a viewer such as myself struggles with. Can we salvage something of the
Roseanne show in the face of Roseanne Barr's general awfulness, and truly have a show about
the working class made by people who, as far as we know, aren't shitty? Can the TV sensibilities
of the past still have something to say in the modern day? We add an indirect answer to that
question when ABC brought back Roseanne for its 10th season in 2018. But before we get to that,
let's have a quick catch-up with the cast of Roseanne before that 10th season revival.
One of the true tragedies following the ending of season 9 of the series was the death of actor
Glenn Quinn, who played Mark Healy. He passed away in 2002 of a drug overdose at the age of 32.
Although he wouldn't be a part of the show's revival in 2018, the character was not recast,
and the character of Mark died between seasons 9 and 10. Darlene's son was given the name Mark
in honor of him. In that 20-year gap, Roseanne Barr became increasingly well-known for her
political commentary, even running for president under the Green Party banner in 2012. In 2011,
Barr reflected on her time in television in an article for Vulture, commenting briefly on the
possibility of a Roseanne reboot. Hollywood hates labor, and hates shows about labor worse than any
other thing, and that's why you won't be seeing another Roseanne anytime soon. Instead, all over
the tube, you'll find enterprising, over-medicated, painted-up capitalist whores claiming to be housewives.
But I'm not bitter. While that might make her sound like a darling Anne Cap, she isn't quite the ally
most on the left would be looking for. Here's some comments she had about the trans community.
She also spoke to a number of right-wing conspiracy theories, from Pizzagate to the supposedly
suspicious murder of Seth Rich. And of course, her support for Donald Trump in the 2016 election
is well-documented. Many of these noxious tweets have since been deleted. Sarah Gilbert, who played
Darlene, had some success of her own by creating the TV daytime talk show The Talk for CBS.
It was on that show she had a brief reunion with John Goodman.
Um, god, I don't know how to say this. I'm a talk show host.
It was this short clip that would eventually lead to the series being revived on ABC for a 10th
season, 20 years later. The cast was reunited, and it seemed like all of America was ready to
forgive, forget, or in some cases celebrate Roseanne's rather curious political leanings,
all in an effort to warmly welcome the return of one of the biggest sitcoms of the 90s.
For the previous nine seasons, I've been trying to find some sort of value or meaning that a viewer
can discover within them. Season 10 takes the characters and context of those seasons and brings
them all the way into the present. But does this show exist carrying the baggage of the past,
or does that baggage make it something more than a show starting from scratch,
and can it escape the shadow of its titular star, Roseanne?
In the first episode of season 10, 20 years to life, we are reintroduced to most of the familiar
faces from the show. Dan and Roseanne are in old age, still struggling to get by, Becky works as
a waitress for a Mexican restaurant, Darlene, after losing her job in Chicago, is forced to
move back in with her parents, now a single mother with two kids, Harris and Mark. DJ,
a veteran home from fighting in the Middle East, struggles to pay his bills and raise his daughter
Mary. His wife, Gina, is still deployed in Syria. And Jackie is still single, trying to find someone
to love her. A few serious regulars have cameos throughout the season, updating us all on their
whereabouts, but in most cases they seem to be right where we left them 20 years ago, struggling
to survive in a town where the rules seem written for people who aren't them, likely informed by
Roseanne Barr's political profile. The first episode runs into the political commentaries
whether Jackie and Roseanne haven't been speaking since the 2016 election that put Donald Trump into
the White House. As you may have noticed, in that nearly one hour and 20 minutes I spent rambling
about the first nine seasons, I never mentioned the characters delving into partisan politics,
largely because they didn't. Taken from an interview in 1992, Barr told the LA Times that
when it comes to the politics of the Conner family, they're somewhere in the middle of it all,
not knowing what anything stands for anymore. So really, what they do is go to work and come
to be with their family and try to make do. Even the Conners aren't spared the burden of partisanship
in 2018, and this partisanship was what brought the show a lot of attention. Its first episode was
a breakout success, and it seemed like Roseanne was set for another run at the top of primetime,
or might have been if 2018 was as tolerant of those stars' eccentricities as the 1990s have been.
The first thing I noticed in this first episode of Roseanne's tenth season is the passage of time,
not just the faces of the actors, but the very production of the show. Multi-camera sitcoms
filmed in front of a live studio audience are increasingly rare, most opt for the single-camera
style you would see on a drama series. Roseanne stays true to its roots, though, with a loving
recreation of all the sights of the old Conner home. It's as though these characters have been
living this endless loop of their hopeless sitcom lives for the past 20 years. But the subtext
here isn't that the Conners' lives are still sorted, but rather the lives of the working class
are still desperate. We can smile nostalgically at how nothing has changed for the Conners,
but applying the same truth to the people they represent is heartbreaking.
Although now in old age, a new host of problems present themselves, like a lack of healthcare.
There are also strange new problems that aren't really problems, such as not really
understanding a non-gender conforming grandson. The generational split from the earlier seasons
is even more pronounced, and with a third generation in the mix, more than ever we get
a sense of how old and out of date Roseanne and Dan are. Things are brought into sharper focus when
we find out Becky, desperate for cash, is going to be a surrogate for, well, the other Becky,
although she's playing a new character, Andrea, in this season. The payment of $50,000 is too much
for Becky to ignore, and we get an interesting callback to an earlier episode, where a woman's
body is her choice, regardless of, in this case, what her father may think.
It's a reminder of how, even though the Conners are older and less in step with modern discourse,
they aren't completely hopeless. That said, the show genuinely seems to be asking the question
if there's anything they can still say that's of value. Dan's frustration is symbolic of that,
that the old relic he is no longer has a say in how the world works. To be honest, he never had
much of a say in the old show, but he did carry weight and authority, as father typically does.
Roseanne's acquiescence was also huge, letting Becky decide for herself, even if later on she
admitted she really didn't want her to be a surrogate. Just watching the show feels like
slipping back in time, but what part do we want to go back to? And more importantly, how can
revisiting the past help us in the present? Let's do a quick comparison between season 10 and an
episode from the original run of the series. Back in season 3, the episode Trick or Treat includes
some interesting gender bedding, as DJ wants to dress as a witch for Halloween, and Roseanne
dresses up as a man. We do get her a few revealing lines from Dan.
And this is pretty much par for the course when it comes to Dan's anxiety about his son's
masculinity. He's worried about it. That said, they do resolve it nicely by the end of the show.
But overall, particularly the scenes with Roseanne, this episode feels like a missed
opportunity. We get a sampling of the violence and toxic masculinity, but it's hidden behind
far too many cheap jokes about men's bathroom habits. Season 10's take on the issue of not
being gender conforming is different. In Dress to Impress, Mark's dressing up in traditionally
female clothing makes Dan and Roseanne concerned. We have a surprisingly sweet scene between
grandmother and grandson. Okay, I'm gonna ask you something kind of adult, but you're growing up and
I think you can handle it. Do you feel like you're a boy or a girl? A boy? Well, you answered that
pretty quick. I thought it was going to be more complicated. So what's up with the girl's clothes?
This just feels like me. I like colors that pop. It's more creative.
Well, your mom's creative, so I get that, but here's the thing. You've got to pick your fights
in life. How important is this to you? It's important. Okay. Well, you know it's going to
be rough on you at school, right? But we'll back you up. Dan's advice of giving Mark a knife does
less good. So you admit it. You were trying to make it more masculine. When did masculine become
a dirty word? And no, I'm not. I'm scared for him. If I don't get what's going on, what do you
think a classroom full of 10 year olds from Lanford is going to do? But Mark proves surprisingly
resilient. But if things get rough, I put pants and a t-shirt in your backpack and you know what?
You're still going to be you. No, I won't. I'm fine, Mom. Well, what if that kid teases you again or
pushes you down or something? He'll get tired of it eventually. I like my clothes. In some ways,
it's refreshing to see a kid who can so effectively stand up for himself. That said,
what precisely does Mark need from his grandparents? He has support from his mother and proves how
strong he already is. Note that some of that toughness is a Connor trait inherited from his
grandparents, but a trait that doesn't need shaping the way it needed shaping in Becky,
Darlene, and DJ. If anything, the show is addressing the older people in the audience,
telling them that non-gender conformity is okay and the real problem is the kids who tease Mark.
In other words, the social pressure. The original series never escaped the gender binary,
and season 10 doesn't quite get away from that either. That said, it does at least delve into
the idea that gender norms are performative and lets a child explore those boundaries in a way
where it isn't him learning his place in the world, but his world learning how to accept him.
In the original run of the series, though, being non-gender conforming is a part of a holiday
tradition. When it comes to wearing those non-gender conforming clothes every day,
that's a tougher bridge to cross for Roseanne and Dan. I think the progression seen in these
episodes is pretty neat. It shows how society can take steps forward quicker than people,
and that isn't always the bad thing. While it doesn't make Roseanne and Dan monsters for
falling behind the times, it definitely shows us that they're out of touch with what their
grandchildren need to be happy. It also doesn't completely discard their experiences as old
fogeys. They knew Mark would be teased, and they wanted to help. They just didn't know how to do
it. In Roseanne Gets the Chair, we get even more extreme parenting advice from Roseanne when Harris
is shown to be completely walking all over Darlene. And this time, it's kinda messed up.
Let's go back to the original run of the series for a moment. In the Season 6 episode,
The Driver's Seat, this episode includes a plotline where DJ steals Roseanne's car
and gets caught by the cops. Roseanne's reaction is pretty dark.
I'm really sorry that I hit you, DJ. I was totally wrong. I never should have done that.
I'm so mad at myself for doing it.
Mad and, you know, kind of embarrassed. Wrong.
Lots of way that I used to feel when I got hit. Who hit you?
Your grandpa hit me. A lot. What'd you do wrong?
I mean, I breathed or something. Do you hate him?
Yes, sometimes. You know, because the worst thing was that, you know, he never,
ever said he was sorry for any of it, you know. I don't want you to hit me,
DJ. I'm really sorry that I hit you. No matter what, I'm never gonna hit you again, ever.
No matter what I do? No matter what you do, ever.
I'm sorry you got hit. I'm sorry you got hit, too. I mean, big sorry.
Right now would be a great time to ask me for a new puppy's kind of sorry.
This episode really demonstrated the cycle of abuse and how victims can still be capable of abuse
themselves. There were several episodes that documented Roseanne Connor's abuse at the hands
of her father that I didn't get to touch on in my first video, but it's an important bit of context
that sadly gets lost in season 10. This season 10 revival of Roseanne supposedly has the old
working-class ethics revived in it, but in this episode we see some real abuse of her granddaughter.
Is this really the Roseanne Connor from earlier seasons, or is this the Trump supporting
reimagining of what she was? This moment reminds me of the strange rebranding of Roseanne as a
conservative hero. Sure, she was a dreadful person in the 90s, but unless she was full of shit with
her critiques of how the government and society left the working class behind, she obviously
wasn't a member of the right. The character of Roseanne was heartbroken when she hit DJ, but
now she's willing to hold her granddaughter's head underwater, have the perceptions of the
writers of Roseanne Barr being on the right colored their perspective of the character of
Roseanne Connor. Well, people parent differently than they did in your day. Turns out a lot of
what you did did not work, and some of it was against the law. Yeah, it's against the law
because your generation made everything so PC. Instead of spanking them, you tell them to go
over there and think about what they did wrong. You know what they're thinking? I can't believe
this loser isn't spanking me. We get a conclusion to the Becky surrogate storyline when we tragically
learn that Becky is too old to have children in Eggs Over Not Easy, which is just a cruel title
to be honest. Even with interventions, I'd say you have less than a five percent chance of ever
getting pregnant. I know you've both been looking forward to this, I'm sorry. It coalesces into a
hard truth about Becky's life these past 20 years. I don't know if you can see yourself frozen in
the same place since Mark died, but everybody else can. I wouldn't have changed anything.
I can't have kids. You said you didn't want kids. I thought I had more time. Was 50 grand really
going to change Becky's life forever? Probably would have gotten her a few years if she were
lucky. Things don't magically get better when someone gives you a bit of extra money. What Becky
really needs is a change to her life, a change to the world she lives in where she can find a way
of surviving without having to be some sort of baby machine, a subtle bit of commentary about
the role of women in our society and how their worth is determined based on whether or not they
can squeeze out a baby. On the lighter side for a moment, this episode also reminds us that John
Goodman is fantastic with physical comedy. Look at the expression on his face here.
In Go Cubs, the Conners, Roseanne in particular, are confronted with Muslim neighbors,
Samir and Fatima. It's here we get one of those episodes where the Conners are faced with their
own bigotry, but in a way that's less subtle than previous episode. Roseanne seems especially racist.
What if this is a sleeper cell full of terrorists getting ready to blow up our neighborhood?
This is what people from Iraq and Taliban just stand do.
They hide out in neighborhoods like Lanford. Don't you watch the news?
Her opinion changes when she encounters her neighbor at a grocery store.
It says insufficient funds. You're $30 short. Um, I didn't know. Sorry, maybe the American
taxpayers forgot to fill it up last week. Excuse me? I'm an American taxpayer sometimes.
Put it on my EBT card. You don't need to do that. Well, we're stealing your cable,
so this probably makes us even. Maybe you can help her carry the groceries out to her camel too.
Roseanne's growth happens less in a moment of self-reflection and more in a moment of empathy
when she sees what bigotry looks like. Unlike the complicated and messy bigotry of the earlier
seasons, in episodes like White Man Can't Kiss, this story is straightforward. Bigotry like this
certainly exists, and there's certainly no harm in showing Roseanne changing her way when she
observes it, but in some ways this feels more old-fashioned than the Roseanne episodes of 20
years earlier, the few that dared to tackle the issue to begin with. Some interesting behind the
scenes commentary for this episode is that the idea of giving Roseanne Connor Muslim neighbors
apparently came from Barr herself. On the other hand, one of the former writers of the Roseanne
series speaking anonymously to Buzzfeed said, I don't recognize that character. I believe the
original character would have said, who cares about having Muslim neighbors? And now she's
saying she does care. This might be another case of Roseanne Barr's Trump support being projected
onto the character of Roseanne Connor. As a sharper point of comparison, the third season
brought us the Bowman's wealthy neighbors who also moved in across the street from the Connors.
Your living room reminds me of ours.
Well, I'm not quite finished with it yet. The tension between Roseanne and Kathy Bowman is
immediate, as Kathy is incapable of accepting the living conditions of her working-class neighborhood.
This episode, like other episodes that include the Bowman's, highlight the class differences that
animate what the series was about. It's no coincidence that the hostility to the Connors
come from right outside their home, as if the society right outside their doors against them,
and the only comfort they can have is within their happy little home. Well, happy being a relative
term. In season 10, the roles have been reversed. The Connor household is where the hostility is
coming from, and it takes the shape of prejudice towards their neighbors based on their ethnicity.
In some ways, this feels like a microcosm of what the original nine seasons of the series missed.
It was very good at pointing out the snobbery of the upper class, a la Kathy Bowman, but when it
came to the racial bigotry of the Connors, it was relegated to a handful of episodes, and often
struggled to really grasp where the other side was coming from. In many ways, it highlights how
a white working-class family is a great setting for discussions about class, but less so for ones
about race. So, actually, Roseanne. I'm going to have to disagree on that one. The eighth episode,
Netflix and Pill, delves into Roseanne's pain pill addiction. She had been suffering a bad
knee all season, and this episode reveals she had been hiding pills all over the house.
The champagne on the Vicodin should say, do not take it with label.
But the good news is, my knees are gone.
How did you possibly have taken more Vicodin? I didn't even get the prescription yet.
Well, you better get on it, because my secret bottles are running low.
You don't have any idea how bad it hurts. Yeah, I do. I get a bad back.
And when your back goes out, you lay on the couch for two weeks, and I wait on you hand and foot.
You know what happens when my knee hurts? I do the cleaning, the shopping, the cooking.
Fine, I'll do all that. Just show me where the water bucket is and the sponge on the stick thingy.
Roseanne's addiction is a product of their poverty, not being able to afford knee surgery.
It's a portrait of addiction that also doesn't blame the addict, and shows how people are driven
into it not because of loose morals, but desperation. It sums up what the show has
always tried to be about, whether we relate to the Conners directly or we're getting a glimpse
of the people we may have looked down on. Either way, we're confronted with people in shitty
situations that aren't of their own making. They're people making do as best they can with what
they've got. In the final episode of season 10, and consequently of Roseanne, knee deep,
a flood hits Lanford and the cost of repairing the foundation drove Dan to hire illegal immigrants
in an effort to win a bid on a drywall job, leaving his longtime friend Chuck out in the cold.
What do you want me to do? I got three extra mouths to feed since Darlene moved back in.
Roseanne started popping pills because we didn't have the money to fix her knee,
and now I got 20 grand of water damage. I spent my whole life hanging on by my fingertips telling
everybody not to worry that I was going to make it okay because that's my job. Well, now I can't
promise that anymore. So yeah, it makes me sick, but I'm going to do whatever I have to do to take
care of my family because I'm old, I'm tired, and I'm not sure how much longer I can hold on.
Well, I'm old too, and I'm tired, and now I'm unemployed. I always told you, if I'm eating,
you're eating. I'm not eating. As the family is pushed closer to financial ruin, they're saved
when the president declares a state of emergency, which means a FEMA program that will help cover
the damages. You have young children rooting for other people's misery. He just declared it!
With that problem mostly solved, Roseanne can finally go under the knife for knee surgery,
and the Connors get the chance to enjoy a meal together, their last meal, at least under the
banner of Roseanne. The series ends in a low-key way, almost as if they were expected another
season. A broken-off series can feel incomplete, but does Roseanne's story really feel like it's
missing pages? She had 10 seasons of stories, even with an abbreviated tenth. Old problems are joined
by new ones, and anything that's solved never lasts. The Connors are in some ways the victims
of the TV culture Roseanne parodied in its original run. They can never change, or else
we'd stop caring about them. It's also what makes them feel real, the same way we rarely ascend from
our own circumstances. Working class stays working class, and the series shows that it's not because
they're shitty people, but they're in a society that doesn't really give a shit about them.
The sudden end of the series came on May 29th when Roseanne Barr made a racist comment about
one of President Obama's senior advisors, Valerie Jarrett. The Roseanne show was cancelled hours
later. Her defense for her actions was… well… Following this video, the next day she released
an official statement, filmed in the same setting with a more tranquil Roseanne. In longer
interviews she would place the blame more squarely on her ambient usage influencing her.
I'm not sure if she said the same for the many other incendiary tweets she's made over the years.
Barr's castmates immediately turned on her as one would if someone tweeted out a racist insult.
With that tweet, Roseanne was able to do something very special for one of the questions I asked at
the beginning of this video. Can we have a socially conscious show like Roseanne, but without
Roseanne Barr herself? The answer so far is… kind of. And it comes in the form of The Conners.
In the months that followed Barr's exit, rumors swirled about a new show focusing on Darlene
Connor. Darlene's importance in higher profile in season 10 seemed to set the stage quite nicely,
but ultimately what we got was the more neutral title of The Conners, and a shared focus on Darlene
and Dan. In the first episode, Keep on Trucking premiered on October 16th. It picked up right
where last season left off, only this time following the sudden death of Roseanne Connor.
Roseanne's death is used to immediately spring towards the social issue that had been in the
background of season 10, and that was covered briefly in episode 8 of that season, Roseanne's
addiction to pain pills. If you'll remember that episode, Roseanne's problem wasn't brought about
by her moral degeneracy or any sort of personal issue, but rather her character's lack of access
to proper medical care that she couldn't afford knee surgery when she desperately needed it.
That addiction was created in an effort to cope with a real physical problem that could have been
addressed with proper medical care. In this episode of The Conners, it highlights the underground pill
community in Lanford, and most strikingly how these people aren't horrible drug dealers, but
people trying to help each other survive. Nobody can afford their meds. We all help each other. When
Sally Benson needed Lipitor for her husband's cholesterol, they got some from Maria Ramirez,
and they gave her the anxiety meds. She needed for some because they dropped her insurance.
Rosie needed painkillers. I had some, so I gave them to her. So you're part of a neighborhood
drug ring. Congratulations to you. You know what, Dan? You can judge, but Roseanne called me.
She told me that her knee wasn't healing up fast enough, and I was the only person she could turn
to. She said that she needed those pain pills to get back to work because you guys were running
out of money. It's important to acknowledge that access to care isn't a perfect safeguard against
addiction, as it is possible for doctors to overprescribe, but a doctor is still a better source
of medication than some nice lady who lives down the street. More broadly for this show, it
demonstrates what the Connors can be without Roseanne by underscoring what the original show was at its
best. The character of Roseanne is the premise upon which real issues affecting working-class
people can be discussed. Whether she's alive or dead matters less than the fact that she's a
catalyst for this discussion to begin. A dead character can't direct conversations in a show,
so her dying kind of ends that. It does open the door for the rest of the family to center
those discussions around themselves and the problems that they face, all while keeping their
trademark sense of humor. One thing season 10 of Roseanne made a nominal attempt to do was
offer a fig leaf to right-wing audience members, and the first season of The Connors does something
similar. In the third episode, There Won't Be Blood, Halloween, a favorite holiday in the
Connor household, sets the stage for a small controversy about Halloween costumes.
Darlene's son Mark is soon refused entry into a school carnival where he dresses as Frida Kahlo.
This is the red meat episode, a tip of the hat to an argument you more often hear from the right
that isn't completely without merit, and an example of a show trying to be balanced. From
a leftist perspective, there is still value in this episode. Much like in the second episode of
season 10 of Roseanne, the Mark-centric episode focuses on his wardrobe, something you certainly
don't see reflected in stories about young boys on TV. Although this could be framed as strictly
an episode for conservatives to reel about political correctness affecting Halloween costumes,
I would rather look at how it's framing the discussion in a way that would support a young
boy's decision to dress in something non-traditional male. This is the sort of
compromise that I think can leave both sides happy. Fancy that. This episode also introduces
us to Jackie's new boyfriend, Peter, played by Matthew Broderick.
One big change for this series is Dan's new role as the voice of reason. In the Roseanne show,
his voice was paired with Roseanne's, so he didn't have quite the patriarchal role that has fallen
so heavily on him in this series. In the fifth episode, Miracles, we can see that new role after
Becky announces she's pregnant and plans on raising the child alone. This episode also introduces love
interests for both Becky and Darlene. Respectively, they are Emilio, played by René Rosado,
and Ben, played by J.R. Ferguson. This episode highlights growing diversity within the series.
Emilio is going to be a bigger force than you might expect, and his role has a political
dimension that makes perfect sense. Previous incarnation of the show often did shy away from
racial issues, but this one isn't. That seems like an improvement to me. An important realization that
when talking about the working class in the United States, you shouldn't leave out the Hispanic
population and the unique problems they face. The romance between Ben and Darlene is cute,
and it shows that what appeals to the bulldozer personality of a strong female character like
Darlene isn't a pushover like David or a strong man to dominate her, but a man that's her match.
I would love the three shrimp tacos. Pick something else. A lot of shrimp is peeled
by Thai kids forced into slave labor, so you think you're eating scampi, but really you're
exploiting children. I got an idea. What if I just had one small shrimp taco and I feel bad about it?
Have the chile relleno. They're really good here. They're vegan. Yeah, I really like those. No, you will.
Well, I think I speak for everyone in the internet department when I say I think we can go out
for dinner. What do you like? Uh, Chinese. I could go for some shrimp fried rice.
You probably, you probably don't know this. Uh, most of the shrimp we eat isn't processed
ethically, so you don't want to get that. Oh, you're confused. You thought I was a child when
I'm actually a grown-ass adult. Yeah, I didn't mean to push. That's not who I am. Oh, great.
Ben is her boss, though she does get a promotion within the first episode and is clearly on her
way up to being his equal, but the fact that he's still her boss says something about economic
disparity. Ben obviously isn't rich, but he seems to be a step ahead of Darlene in the world. The
wage gap exists in all classes, even the working class. This can be viewed through that lens,
rather than the gender dynamics of a man having power over a woman. It isn't trying to reinforce
the patriarchy. It's about how capitalism uses the patriarchy to present supposedly natural power
dynamics between men and women. Women's work is less valuable, and look at that, the man is the
boss. Continuing on that theme of working class issues that don't just affect white people,
in episode 10, Don't Shoot the Piano Teacher, we learn specifically that Emilio is an illegal
immigrant. Is he here illegally? Well, who cares if he's illegal? Who cares if he's a busboy?
A lot of people with difficult beginnings have risen above their station in life,
Dan. I mean, nobody in our family, but I've read about it. It's pretty inspirational when it
happens. And we see Dan evolve on the subject. Look, I gotta be honest with you. I don't like
the way you got here. You broke the law and you could be putting me in a bad situation,
but I want to help my daughter, so I have to help you. I understand. Dan's position on hiring
undocumented immigrants is less of a difficult question when it comes to helping his daughter.
Dan also realizes something. Rather than the hideous drug dealer caricature presented by,
say, the president of the United States, Emilio is a hardworking guy who's come to the United States
to make a better life for himself. Dan doesn't have to like the way Emilio entered the country,
but he also can't deny that his family's lives would be better if he was there.
Becky's fear of Emilio being deported is a callback to her fear of being left behind again,
the same way Mark left her behind when he died. While the deportation angle doesn't enter into
her mind in a racist context, it does color her relationship with him. How can she think of
building a life with him, even if he says he'll be around, when he might be gone the next day?
Why are you pushing him into my life? Because you're being stubborn and stupid. I'm sorry. I'm
a life coach. You're being overly rooted and intelligent adjacent. What is your problem?
You know what my problem is? I've been doing fine. So why should I start depending on somebody who
might not be here when I need him? Living in fear prevents undocumented immigrants from reaching a
greater potential. The season finale, we continue to truck ends with a few major bombshells. Jackie
breaks up with her boyfriend, Peter, after she finds out he's been cheating on her.
I'm with you and not her. A stupid affair doesn't mean I love you any less.
Don't throw what we have away by being so narrow-minded and provincial.
Don't play your mind games with me. This isn't my fault.
Isn't it Jackie?
Don't let your insecurity drive away another man.
Oh my god. Dan told me you were taking advantage of me and I didn't listen because I was weak.
You're not weak.
Well, not anymore. I'm not.
Oh, ow. Ow, ow. That hurt.
Good. Well, then that means I'm doing it right.
This leads Jackie to a bit of a breakdown, and it really highlights what the first season has been
about, and that's loss. Dealing with the loss of Roseanne and trying to organize their lives
around the gaping hole her absence has created. In many ways, the show itself is still struggling
to fill that missing role of Roseanne Connor. To get those characters back to a place where they
could be happy, Jackie's breakdown at the end is the sad realization that they can never go back.
They'll never be happy the way they used to be.
Me and my sister. We owned the place. We called it the lunchbox, and it was the last place I was
happy. It's entirely possible things will change in future seasons, and it seems to be building in
that direction, but it really demonstrates how families just don't bounce back from a trauma.
The working class vibe is present, but it's understated compared to the earlier incarnation
of the show, and its plays are more personal intersectional stories, touching on the Hispanic
working class experience in Emilio.
It's Emilio, right?
Taking me to Tejas, and then turning me over to authorities in Juarez,
I will find a way back to you and our baby after a short time in Chihuahua.
In the city, no big dog.
Characters of color are a welcome addition, and generally add new dimensions to the show,
though there hasn't been much racial commentary with Gina and Mary. It also would have been nice
to see something more of Gina outside of her intense religiosity.
Well, you can gamble with your souls if you want, but my family's going to church.
Aunt Darlene doesn't make Mark and Harris go, so why do I have to?
Because I say so.
These may be for future seasons.
Gina Connor, would you stand and be recognized?
Baby, people stop raising the roof in 2005.
Can we have Roseanne without Roseanne?
The answer is yes.
Sort of.
But it's not like so many of these stories couldn't or wouldn't be done in an 11th season of Roseanne.
It feels more like the show is picking up where it left off,
trying to cut off the toxic elements of the previous series, including Roseanne Barr herself.
In some ways, the series didn't really need her to begin with,
although in other ways it absolutely did because it was named for her and was a vehicle for her.
One joke Roseanne Barr demanded to be put in the first episode of season 10 was about Hillary Clinton,
to at least try to balance all the jokes about Donald Trump.
Aunt Jackie thinks every girl should grow up and be president,
even if they're a liar liar pantsuit on fire.
And it makes me wonder what other things Roseanne would have demanded be included in future seasons.
In many ways, she was a passenger in season 10.
But season 11?
Season 12?
Considering how her influence grew throughout the first nine seasons,
I think it's a decent assumption that her controlling personality would have bled to the fore
and had a heavier influence on the direction of the show.
It'll be interesting to see how the Conners grow in the future, without Roseanne's influence.
That'll give it a freer hand to be what it wants, but what does it want to be?
A show about the working class, in all its many shapes and forms,
and how it struggles to get by in America today?
That's possible, but not without more work to deliver on some of the early promises of its first season.
It's a show that has a lot of baggage, but maybe that's what makes it feel all the more real,
and maybe that's how it connects to people.
In an interview she gave, Sarah Gilbert reflected on what the first season of The Conners accomplished.
In this context, she's discussing the final episode of the first season.
Some of the emotions of the premiere come up again in this episode.
That's something that was really important to me.
I didn't want to do a sitcom version of Lost where there's one very special episode,
and then it's done and everybody moves on.
This episode shows that emotional themes run through people's lives, and not just through a week.
Perhaps most importantly, The Conners gave us a chance to enjoy a show that dramatized
in the struggles of the working class in an entertaining way,
just as the first nine seasons of Roseanne did, and just as the tenth season did.
Though The Conners may never shake the ghost of its upbringing,
it does point to a better future we can work towards,
one that builds off the strengths of its past and hopefully leaves its weaknesses behind.
One of its best strengths was highlighting the humor and joy that sustains people,
even when the world seems to be forgetting them.
While some may feel affinity in the hollow words of a conman,
we can still learn about the struggles of these characters and perhaps even more from their
failings, and hopefully it can create an awareness that this is a society not working for the working
class, and from there, maybe the realization that it can be changed for the better.
If Roseanne can get rid of its toxicity to become The Conners,
why can't we be better and remove the toxicity from our own world?
Love me, and subscribe to my channel.
You can also like and leave a comment, and if you want to show me your undying devotion,
consider becoming a donor to my Patreon, like these fine people.
You can also follow me on Twitter or shoot me a question on Curious Cat.
Thanks for watching.
